Residents of Itungwa Avenue, located on Ogbor Hill, Aba, Abia State, now sleep in fears as a result of the activities of cultists, armed robbers and other hoodlums who congregate at a popular Hotel in the area waiting for preys to unleash mayhem on. The activities of these cultists and armed robbers operating in the area have brought untold hardship to the residents. Street traders now close their shops and businesses early enough before the miscreants, who walk around the Avenue, storm their shops to cart away all they laboured for the day. The agony and penury these cultists, who have now taken over the streets of Itungwa Avenue and environs, have inflicted on households in the area has reached a point that the miscreants have informants roaming the streets and monitoring residents who may want to contact security agencies with a view to exposing their escapades. Each passing day, new faces continue to congregate around the popular Hotel, located around Itungwa Avenue, which further instills fear in the residents of the area and leaves them at the mercy of the hoodlums. As if that is not enough, these youths, who are in their thirties, go about freely with machetes, axes, bottles, guns and are ever ready to brandish the weapons on anyone that prevents them or interferes in their business of extorting from residents, Keke Operators, among others. A case of a tricycle operator Chinedu Onuoha, who was given a beating of his life for no just cause by the ring leader of the Cult group named Ogoja, is an example of the numerous activities unleashed by miscreants on innocent members of the society The source added that when the brother to the Keke Operator got wind of what was happening, he quickly rushed to the scene, inquired into the beating of his brother, and the hoodlums descended on him. It was also gathered that a lady roasting corn around the area, who pleaded with them to stop beating an innocent man, was also pounced on by these hooligans. Another eyewitness, who craved anonymity, said a brother to the Keke Operator managed to invite, Army whose quick arrival forestalled the hoodlums from setting the Keke ablaze. Ogoja was arrested, but regained freedom few days later and immediately commenced the business of terrorising residents. When newsmen inquired if residents had informed Security Agencies about the wave of crime in Itungwa Avenue, Aba and environs, it was alleged that Security Agents visit the popular hotel to buy marijuana as well as patronise the harlots in the hotel, pointing out that they knew hoodlums congregate at the Hotel. A resident, who has lived in the area since the hotel was built in 2015, said the level of crime related activities in Itungwa Avenue and its environs, have increased enormously, calling on Abia State Government to arrest the miscreants using Diamond Hotel as hideout to perpetuate crime, He added that failure of the State Government to move swiftly and arrest the situation may degenerate to worse crimes in Aba. He revealed that despite the closure of the main gate leading to Diamond Hotel, the hoodlums are still domiciled there, stressing that the hotel cum brothel plays host to different calibres of people with dubious character.