The Department of Development Control of the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has marked structures in some communities around the Usuma Dam buffer zone for demolition. Daily Trust had reported last week that human activities in and around the dam pose threats of contamination of the potable water source and degradation of the environment therein. The areas marked for demolition are both at the lower and upper axes of the dam, starting from its embankment. Daily Trust learnt that about four meetings have been held by the FCT Water Board which is the custodian of the facility, department of development control and also the communities. Speaking about the development, the Acting Director of Development Control, Kwamkur Garba, said residents in the buffer zone live in danger, as no one may survive in the event of the dam-breaking, hence all the structures will be pulled down. When our reporter visited Ushafa community yesterday, the residents were apprehensive; expressing concern that the authorities did not notify them. The secretary of the District Head, Abdullahi Tabwa, who spoke on behalf of his boss, expressed concern on the issue. Tabwa explained that the people of the community were worried about the demolition plan, as, according to him, there was no warning from the authorities against erecting buildings there in the first place. He gave the name of the marked areas as Pmagbe, Shafatu, Unguwar Tiv and SCC layout, all within the Ushafa district. “When our fathers gave out land for the dam project about 40 years back, the government had the option to fence the said buffer zone or at least not to allow people to develop the area,” he said. According to him, some of the residents there have put in their investments to build their homes having retired from public or private service. He, therefore, demanded adequate compensation ahead of any action. “We also need money to take care of our children in school, and we don’t have any assets to sell apart from this land,” Tabwa said. Also speaking, one of the residents around SSC layout, Mr. Adoje Gideon, called for a meeting between the residents and the authorities to discuss compensation, “if the pending demolition plan must be carried out as a last option.” 