Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has criticsed the Federal Government over the suspension of Twitter Operations in Nigeria. On Friday, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information, had announced the suspension, saying government took the action over the persistent use of the platform for activities that are capable of undermining Nigeria’s corporate existence. But the development has been rejected by many who highlighted the benefits of the microblogging site. In a statement on Saturday, Makinde called for a reversal of the suspension for the “greater good of Nigerians”. “It has become imperative for me to release a statement regarding the suspension of Twitter’s operations in Nigeria by the Federal Government.” “As leaders, we should go beyond emotional reactions to issues and think about how our actions will affect the people we lead and our international ratings socially and economically. “Twitter has become the platform for young people and indeed all Nigerians to exercise their fundamental right to express and publish an opinion. They use the platform to complain, argue and give feedback to government and its agencies who in turn, use these to improve policies. This is a fundamental point that should be kept in mind as we debate the necessity of this suspension. “We should also remember that Twitter has gone beyond a source of communication for many of our hardworking youths in Nigeria. It has become a source of livelihood for many, irrespective of their political affiliations or religious leanings. “Nigerian youths and digital communications organisations earn a living from being able to use the platform to post communications on behalf of their clients. “Others who may not have physical stores also rely on Twitter to give visibility to their products and services. Furthermore, I believe the Federal Government should be actively interested in how certain policies and action will affect investor confidence. “I, therefore, use this medium to appeal to the Federal Government to reverse this suspension for the greater good of Nigerians.” The faceoff with Twitter started after the microblogging site deleted a tweet of President Muhammadu Buhari on civil war.