An investor and promoter of Ketti District under the FCDA land swap programme,  Moses Ayom, has commended the decision of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) to lift the suspension on the FCT Land Swap Programme, as a revolutionary step to bridge the infrastructure deficit. Ayom, who is also the chief executive officer of Hongye International Ltd, said that the FEC resolution is further evidence of President Muhammadu Buhari’s endless commitment to fast-track Nigeria’s quest to overcome her infrastructural, housing and employment challenges. “This is a new dawn for Nigeria. A major stumbling block for investor confidence has been lifted. I congratulate all Nigerians for this,” he said. Speaking on the benefits of the decision, Mr Ayom who was on the first Presidential trade mission to China in 2016 along with Africa’s richest man Alhaji Aliko Dangote said that with the opening of new districts, cases of traffic congestion, housing deficits, infrastructural decay and environmental hazards will become things of the past. Alhaji Dangote is also a beneficiary of the Land swap project in Sheretti district. He expressed delight that with this decision, his dream of establishing Africa’s largest Green Smart City in Ketti will now be a reality. Ayom who was also a governorship aspirant of the APC in Benue State said that Nigerians will soon begin to witness urbanization programmes similar to cities like Dubai, Qatar, Schenzen and Milton Keynes. He assured Nigerians that the cost of housing will be drastically reduced with the various partnerships and synergies investors like him have put in place. “Already, the Hongye group has signed a development partnership agreement with the Federal Housing Authority (FHA) and other international environmental investors to develop Ketti district covering 308 hectares to international standards. He also commended the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr. Godwin Emefile, for approving a N1bn loan under the Real Sector Support Facility to his company Granite and Marble Ltd. He said that this was a counterpart funding in an investment agreement signed with SBM China Ltd, one of the world’s biggest manufacturers of mining equipment to establish Africa’s largest mining processing plant in Abuja. He said, “This is the time to realize the full benefits of this agreement that was signed during the presidential trade mission to China in 2016.” The Ketti District, one of the districts approved under the FCT land swap programme is located on a vast greenfield along the airport road and is designed for low and medium density housing and commercial use. It has a space for a PGA standard Golf Course as well as spaces for the world’s top hotel and tourism brands.