Bandits have attacked kanawa and Runka villages of Danmusa Local Government Area of Katsina State. At least, six people were killed in the attack, Daily Trust gathered. A resident of Kanawa village, who confided in Daily Trust, said the attackers came Saturday evening and dispersed the villagers. “When we heard the roar of their motorcycles, we all dispersed into the bush but they chased some of us and gunned down six and injured others. “As I speak with you now (Sunday morning), we have just finished the burial of the six persons killed and three more have sustained serious injuries. “One is receiving medical care in Katsina and the two others at Danmusa hospital,” he said. He said the bandits, who were riding about 60 motorcycles, came around 6:30 pm, saying they carted away some domestic animals belongings to newly wedded brides in the villages. When contacted, the Police spokesman in Katsina, SP Gambo Isah, said the command did not receive a report from the DPO of the area but promised to contact him for confirmation. This attack was coming few days after the Police repelled another bandits’ attack on Wurma and Yarbudu villages of Kurfi Local Government Area during which five of the attackers were reportedly killed. The command’s spokesman had in a statement issued to journalists, said over 150 bandits riding on motorcycles invaded the villages on Wednesday at about 5:30 pm. Isah said: “On 02/06/2021 at about 17:30hrs, bandits numbering over one hundred and fifty (150), on motorbikes, armed with AK 47 rifles, attacked Wurma and Yarbudu villages, Kurfi LGA. “A team of Police Mobile Force (PMF) personnel stationed at Wurma village, engaged the hoodlums in a fierce gun battle and repelled their attack. “One was neutralized and many escaped with gunshots wounds. “One operational motorcycle of the bandits was also recovered.” According to him, a team of policemen led by the Area Commander, Dutsinma, blocked the escape route of the bandits at Yarbudu village and engaged them in a gun duel and four bandits were neutralized and five of their motorcycles were recovered.