Kaduna State Government has refuted reports that it deployed security operatives to suppress protesting students at the state’s own College of Education, which led to the death of a student. It comes hours after a student among hundreds protesting hike in school fees was shot as security operatives attempted to forcefully disperse the protesters. In a press statement by the Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, said the KDSG is awaiting briefings to enable it understand the circumstances surrounding the unfortunate violent incidence in Gidan Waya. “In the preliminary report received so far, one student lost his life and some others were wounded, while three security personnel also sustained injuries,” he said. “At the time of this update, the Governor is awaiting reports from the military, police, DSS, the management of the institution, the student union as well as the traditional institution in the area. The government will publicise its findings after receipt of the expected reports,” the statement said. The National Association of Nigerian Students is to relocate its national congress to occupy Kaduna to protest tuition increases in the state. The association called the increments “insensitive, unreasonable, and unrealistic.” One student was shot during protests in Kaduna. NANS has given Kaduna governor 21 days until the date of its congress to pacify Nigerian students on the increase in school fees. Demand for justice A group under the aegis of Socialist Workers and Youth League (SWL) has condemned attack and killing of one of the students of Kaduna State College of Education, Gidan Waya while protesting hike in school fees. The national secretary of SWL, Lai Brown in a statement said the violent attack on protesting students bears similarity with characteristics of President Muhammadu Buhari-led regime, which has in thought and deed criminalized protests. “A total descent into authoritarianism and a frontal assault on democratic rights is now the order of the day. Apparently, these elements will do everything to defend the bosses’ system and their class interest at the detriment of poor workers and youth,” the statement reads in part. According to Brown, the hike in school fees is totally unnecessary and unjustifiable as he stated that Kaduna State has one of the highest rate of out-of-school children and should be committed to making public education available and affordable to as many people as possible. “Also, Kaduna state has become an haven for armed kidnappers and bandits who have laid siege on the education system and the State governor appears helpless in the face of criminal assaults on the people. The El-Rufai led state government has failed to improve the quality of education. It has also failed to guarantee the safety and protection of students in the state. “This is yet another insensitive act of the Kaduna State Government. It is an attempt to make education unaffordable and inaccessible to the children and wards of poor working-class people in the state. The school fees increment is connected and as a matter of fact continuation of the El-Rufai government’s anti-people policies.”