The National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) has accepted the cancellation of this year’s Hajj. In a statement on Saturday, Fatima Sanda Usara, Head, Public Affairs of the Commission, said the cancellation is in compliance with the directive of Saudi authorities. Daily Trust had reported how Saudi authorities announced the restriction of this year’s Hajj to citizens who are resident in the Kingdom over COVID scare. “In the light of what the world is witnessing with the continuing developments of the pandemic Covid-19, and the emergence of new variations, Hajj 1442 will be limited to the residents and citizens from within the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia ONLY – (60,000). The Total Number of pilgrims this year is limited to ONLY 60,000 people, for residents of all nationalities and citizens inside the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia,” the authorities had said in a statement. In its reaction, NAHCON described the development as the will of God, saying only Him can determine who his guests will be this year. “We received news of the cancellation of Hajj for international pilgrims for the 2021 season. The Commission’s officials in Saudi Arabia have confirmed that state television and radio stations in the Kingdom have announced the news.” “NAHCON respects the decision of Saudi Arabia in this regard no matter how painful that decision may be to us and to intending pilgrims worldwide. We have accepted that it is Allah’s divine design that multitudes will again this year not perform the Hajj: the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is only playing out a script ordained by our Maker long before creation of the universe. Our prayer is that we collectively turn to Him in repentance so that He admits us for Hajj in the coming years. The will of God “One of the lessons from these two years’ cancellations of Hajj for foreign pilgrims’ is in the Prophet’s hadith urging Muslims to perform Hajj while they can before they are prevented from doing so. Again, it impresses on us that it is only Allah that selects those who will be His guests for Hajj. May we not be deprived of Allah’s mercy. May we be among those who will be chosen to perform Allah’s worship in future. “As in the previous year, those pilgrims who request for refund of their Hajj deposits will be granted such without unnecessary delay. As for those who would still wish to roll-over their funds, the Commission strongly urges them to wait for further advice and decisions by the board.”