The Women Youth Children and Crime Organization (WYCCO) led by a former Chairperson of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mrs. Farida Waziri, has called for psychiatric tests for politicians in the country. Waziri made the call on Wednesday in Abuja when she led her organization on a working visit to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) headquarters. She also expressed support for the NDLEA and seek to partner with it in its offensive action against illicit drugs and traffickers. Waziri who commended the efforts of the agency in combating drug abuse, said that the Northern youths decided to support the war against drugs, as young Nigerians were becoming high consumers of narcotics. According to her, the group which has interest in combating the consumption of illicit drugs seeks ways to partner with the NDLEA in the advocacy and fight against drugs. The former EFCC boss lamented that the high rate of unemployment in the country owing to the large numbers of graduates from the over 170 universities in the country has largely contributed to the high level of drug consumption among the youths. “Politicians need to undergo psychiatrist tests before occupying public office. This is to ensure that these politicians do not hold public offices under the influence of drugs,” she said. She also lamented that politicians used youths for thurgry under the influence of drugs. Responding, Chairman NDLEA, Brig-Gen. Buba Marwa (Retd), stressed the need for politicians seeking public offices and students seeking admission into higher institutions to undergo drug integrity test. According to him, there is the need for the people to entrust the management of their treasury and their wellbeing in the hands of politicians that have clear minds because no public office holder under the influence of drugs can think straight. “We cannot entrust the resources of this country to people whose heads are not straight. Politicians ought to be tested and certified fit to contest public office. “Same thing applies to students who are seeking admission into higher institutions. Because of the evidence-based strong nexus between drug abuse and security challenges across the country, concerted efforts must be made towards tackling the drug scourge headlong,” Marwa said. He commended Mrs. Waziri for setting up the organization and assures her of the support of the agency.