Senate President Ahmed Lawan and the Minister of Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs, Senator George Akume, have urged Nigerians, especially the communities to monitor constituency projects. They made the call on Tuesday in Abuja at the Stakeholders’ Interactive Forum with Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) on the Implementation of 2020 Zonal Intervention/Constituency Projects. Akume said that the forum was to brainstorm on ways to ensure adequate monitoring, verification and evaluation of constituency projects nationwide and also to brief stakeholders of the critical roles expected from MDAs. According to him, if constituency projects were properly executed by the various representatives, it would go a long way to reduce poverty and unemployment among other challenges facing the country. “The meeting will provide guidelines on effective monitoring, evaluation and verification for payment of zonal intervention/constituency projects across the country,” he said. The minster said that his ministry being saddled with the responsibility of overseeing the implementation of zonal projects among others, will ensure collaboration with National Assembly to realise the objectives of the forum. “The overall objective of implementing these projects and programmes is to ensure speedy and even development at the grassroots in line with the Federal Government’s agenda. “Effective implementation of projects and programme will also assist the government in key decision-making process. It will also help to determine that their deliverables were consistent with the intention to reduce poverty and significant economic inclusive growth,” he said. Senate President Ahmad Lawan, represented by Chairman, Senate Committee on Special Duties, Senator Yusuf Abubakar Yusuf, noted that the forum geared towards accountability, transparency, and compliance in implementing the zonal intervention/constituency projects across the country was a welcome development. Lawan said the forum would serve as a platform for stakeholders to interact with experts on critical issues emanating from previous verification, monitoring and evaluation exercises. He added that the forum will also unravel the roles expected from MDAs in actualising the successful implementation of constituency projects in the country. On his part, the Chairman, Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr AbdulRasheed Bawa, represented by EFCC Deputy Head of Operations, Mr. Adebayo Adeniyi, assured of the commission`s collaboration with the forum to achieve its aims. He said, “Constituency projects, if sincerely budgeted for and executed are supposed to be the closest thing in terms of dividend of democracy to the people, taking into cognizance the limitation of the local government administration in most parts of the country and make the implementation of the 2020 constituency projects a seamless one for the benefit of the people.”