A 60-year-old herbalist, Godfrey Akpudje, has been arrested with two human skulls, which he intend to prepare money ritual for a yet to be identified client. The suspect was said to have severed the head of an old lady who was buried in 2019, in Ekpan, Delta state. The police said the suspect had also confessed to buying the second skull from a fellow herbalist in Osun State. Public Relations Officer, Delta State Police Command, Edafe Bright, revealed in a statement that the arrest was following a report at the station by one Ejiro Okoro, who alleged that the corpse of his sister (Name withheld) aged 65 years was exhumed from her grave at Ekpan Ovu by unknown person. Bright said based on the strength of the report, the DPO Isiokolo Division swung into action, and detailed police detectives to investigate. He said during the course of investigation, information gathered through intelligence revealed that, it was one Godfrey Akpudje,  60, who happens to be a native doctor that exhumed the corpse, and removed the skull. He said the suspect was immediately arrested and two human skulls were recovered from him during a search at his residence. “He said he got one of the human skull from Osun State from a native doctor who is now late. Investigation is ongoing” he added. Similarly, Bright said on June 28, 2021,  at about 11.45 am, Dragon Patrol Team 31 while on stop and search duty at Nsukwa junction along Ogwashi-Uku/Kwale road intercepted a commuter sienna bus travelling from Asaba to Kwale. He said all passengers were asked to submit themselves for search and that  during which three suspects were found with a container filled with fresh human blood. “The three suspects namely Monday Nwite , 27, Madabuchi Nweke’ 26 and Nwite Sunday, 21, all of Ebenta village in Ohaukwu Local Government Area (LGA) of, Ebonyi State were immediately arrested. During interrogation the suspects confessed to have murdered some unknown persons in Ebonyi State and were on their way with the murdered person’s blood to a native doctor whose identity is unknown for now but resides in Kwale. They were taking the blood to the said native doctor  for rituals purposes.  One rosary necklace tied with charms was also recovered from them. Investigation is ongoing” he said. 