Three fake staffers of Oshodi-Isolo Local Government Area (LGA), Lagos State have been arrested while extorting motorists under the pretence of revenue collection for the LGA. The suspects were arrested Wednesday at Oshodi by officials of the State Environmental and Special Offences Unit also known as Taskforce. During interrogation, the suspects, claimed they are working with Oshodi – Isolo Local Government, Oshodi, a claim which was later discovered to be false. The suspects, Daily Trust learnt, were arrested on the orders of the Chairman, Lagos State Environmental and Special Offences Unit,  Shola Jejeloye, after receiving many complaints from some of their victims. Femi Moliki, Head of the Public Affairs Unit of the taskforce, who confirmed the arrest, identified the suspects as Samuel Oyegbule, 52, Olayiwola Thomas, 53 and Kola Taiwo 47. Moliki said as at the time of the arrest, the suspect had extorted N25,000 from one of their victims for obstruction, adding that another victim also alleged he was extorted of the same amount the previous day. He said the first victim who does not want his name mentioned, alleged that the suspects walked up to his vehicle while he was waiting for traffic light at Oyetayo Street, in Oshodi and accused him of committing a traffic offence and he was forced to Oshodi – Isolo Local Government Secretariat, Oshodi, where he was made to cough out N25,000 as fine. Moliki added that the second victim, a bolt driver, said he was arrested for dropping off his client in front of his house in the inner street of Oshodi. “He said they refused to listen to his explanation. They fined him N25,000 also. “The victims alleged that the suspects select vehicles they know can pay their charges before arresting them in trumped-up charges and forcing them to local government headquarters to make payment. “They also alleged that the suspects brought into the same place several other vehicles arrested in the same manner like his and they were made to pay as well. Some of them were made to pay a higher amount”, he said. Warning other touts and persons who illegally issue tickets to motorists on public roads and streets, CSP Jejeloye noted that the taskforce would continue with the arrest of miscreants posing as council officials to extort road users. 