Some stakeholders of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Bauchi State, under the aegis of ‘Manazarta Siyasar Jam’iyyar APC’, have told the governor of the state that there will be no room for him in the party. They were reacting to the speculations that the state governor, Bala Mohammed, is planning to defect from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to APC, declaring that the governor is not welcome to the party. The Chairman of the group, Yahya Idris Suleiman, who disclosed this in a chat with newsmen Monday in Bauchi, said that they do not want the governor to join APC “because his coming to APC is a bad omen to the party.” Responding to the group’s position, the PDP through its State Publicity Secretary, Yayanuwa Zainabari, described the speculations of the governor’s defection to APC as a daylight dream. Suleiman had alleged that: “The governor is planning to defect to APC. “But by God’s grace, it will not happen. Let him remain in the party that gave him the mandate and he should not betray the PDP. “He should remain there because you’re not welcome to our party.” “If he (Governor) thinks he is working and doing good projects which is merely financial rape, why won’t he stay there and get re-elected if he is really working? “Our findings proved that he is not doing the needful as he is accumulating huge debts in the name of working for Bauchi state,” Suleiman said. “We appeal to the people of Bauchi state, particularly our supporters, to remain calm on the current speculations on social media and radio of the governor’s defection to APC. “We are doing everything possible to avert it. We will only be working with good and credible people in our party,” Suleiman added. On his part, the PDP spokesman, Zainabari, said that the APC stakeholders were the ones spreading the speculations with the aim of distracting the governor from discharging his responsibility. “What compelling reasons would make the governor dump his party? “Even if there are such reasons, the people of Bauchi don’t want the governor to leave PDP because it was the only party in the history of the state that brings dividend of democracy to the ordinary people and transformed Bauchi with infrastructures that APC members and outsiders are hailing the governor for actualizing the feat.”