The Joint National Assembly (NASS) Committee on Land Transportation has viewed with dissatisfaction the manner in which both Federal and State governments encroach on lands owned by the Railway Corporation. The member representing Zaria Federal constituency and Chairman, Joint Committee on Senate and House of Representative on Land Transport, Tajudeen Abbas, stated when he led members on an oversight visit to the Railway Property Management Corporation (RPMC) in Kaduna. “The major challenge that RPMC have been able to intimate us about is the issue of encroachment by both federal and state governments and it has been a thorn in the flesh. “We assure them that, all those states and all those properties they have problems with, we are in a good position to assist if they are able to give us all the details once we get back to the National Assembly.” He said, “We will articulate all those issues and then we will begin to see the affected States government one after the other. At the end of the day we should be able to help the company in resolving some of those issues. “We are satisfied with the report that has been given to us and we are also satisfied with the performance of the management of this company. They have done exceedingly good in terms of financial prudence, issues that have to do with litigation and issue of maintenance and other valuable property of Nigeria Railway Corporation”. Tajudeen also expressed satisfaction with the management of RPMC in the area of financial prudency and overall management of the company. On his part, the Managing Director (MD) of the Railway Property Limited, Mr. Timothy Zalanga said that they are turning around the railway sector. “I would like Nigerians to see action. We are turning around the railway sector and by extension the property of railway, we are making sure that we increase the assets base of the corporation by investing more of corporation money in building structures for the corporation”. “We have been friends of the NASS, they are quite supportive and we will continue to explore the opportunity they have given us, to make sure that some of the challenges we outlined to them are addressed and they have promised that they will look into those things”. The Committee also visited the Inland Dry Port at the station. 