The family of Chief MKO Abiola, acclaimed winner of the June 12, 1993, presidential election, on Saturday, said the Federal Government is yet to fulfil the promises made to the family. The Secretary of the family, Engineer Rahaman Abiola, disclosed this in an interview with journalists when a delegation of the Ogun State government, led by the Deputy Governor, Mrs. Noimot Salako-Oyedele, visited the Abeokuta family house of Abiola to celebrate the June 12 Democracy Day. Abiola was believed to have won the June 12 exercise which was adjudged the freest and fairest election in the history of the country. President Muhammadu Buhari had moved the country’s democracy day celebration from May 29 to June 12 to honour Abiola. But Rahaman Abiola declared that the since the declaration by Buhari, the family has not benefited anything from the Federal Government. The Secretary, who lamented the death of Abiola, the breadwinner of the family, said the Federal Government has failed to fulfill all the promises made to the family. But he commended the Federal Government for honouring Abiola with the award of the Grand Commander of the Federal Republic (GCFR) and declaring June 12 as Democracy day. He said, “We are happy indeed that President Muhammadu Buhari deemed it fit to honour Abiola by giving him the GCFR and make June 12 official Democracy Day. Kudos to that. “So far, so good, we have not benefitted anything from the Federal Government. “Ogun State Government right from Chief Olusegun Osoba to Governor Gbenga Daniel, to Governor Ibikunle Amosun, and now to Governor Dapo Abiodun, they always honour MKO Abiola every June 12. “Ogun State Government will always come with all the machineries to make the day happen and to recognise that this man was born in this area and this is his hometown. Our breadwinner has gone. Promises from the Federal Government we have not seen yet. On June 12, state government is trying its best. I give kudos to them on June 12. Governor comes here always to pay solitary to the house and empower us to make sure June 12 is celebrated all the time.” Meanwhile, Governor Dapo Abiodun has called on those calling for the disintegration of Nigeria to shelve the idea and embrace unity in the spirit of June 12. The Governor who stated this at an event organised by the State government to mark the celebration of democracy day, said “MKO Abiola and his mandate should serve as a reminder to all of us that we are stronger together as a Nation. “He (Abiola) broke all barriers such as religion and ethnicity that are being used in Nigeria today to divide us. He won across the length and breadth of this country, even at the backyard of his main opponents. It was a phenomenon that should remind us that we are greater than our challenges. “Unless and until we embrace the essence of the MKO persona, internalize belief in self, faith in a united country and other initiatives that help to engender a sense of shared heritage amongst Nigerian people, we will continue to be a country in search of Nationhood.”