An undergraduate of the University of Ilorin, Olajide Omowumi Blessing, has been raped and murdered in her residence along Tanke area in Ilorin metropolis. The deceased, a 300-level Student of Agricultural Science Department, hails from Oke-Opin, Ekiti local government area of Kwara State and was said to be staying with her elder sister. State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Okasanmi Ajayi, gave further details of the killing of the deceased. He said, “The deceased stayed with her elder sister who came back from work at about 6:00pm on Tuesday, saying that she had tried severally to reach her on phone but couldn’t as the phone kept ringing. “On her arrival, she met the door of her apartment locked and couldn’t gain entry despite repeated knocks. She then called some neighbours who helped to break down the door. They all met the deceased lying dead on the floor when they entered with her two hands tied to the back, and her mouth gagged. She was met naked and bruises noticed on her private parts,” the PPRO said. He added, “A note said to have been written on a piece of paper was placed on her chest containing a message, “Unilorin doesn’t forgive”. The people later informed the police at F’ Division Police Station, who discovered the dead body, snapped the picture, and took the corpse to the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital (UITH) for autopsy”. Lawmaker decries rising insecurity Also reacting to the development, Hon. Ganiyu Abolarin, representing Ekiti State constituency at the Kwara State House of Assembly, decried the growing insecurity in the State and demanded the immediate investigation, apprehension and prosecution of the culprits. Abolarin said, “I am deeply concerned about increasing cases of rape and brutality against the girl child in Nigeria. “I strongly condemn the gruesome killing of Olajide Omowumi Blessing. This gruesome murder is one death too many. “The action of the culprits horrific, condemnable and should not be condoned by any society. I therefore, urge security agencies to speedily investigate, arrest and prosecute the culprits. “While I commiserate with the bereaved family on the loss of their daughter, I prayed God to grant Blessing’s soul peaceful rest. I also want to urge all our young people to be wary of the company they keep and the places they visited” he added When contacted, the Director of Information, University of Ilorin, Mr Kunle Akogun said he was not aware of the incident.