The Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Isiaka Amao, has said that the Nigerian Airforce (NAF) will take delivery of eight aircraft in July 2021. He said the aircraft, including 6 x A-29 Super Tucano aircraft from the United States of America, 2 x Wing Loong Unmanned Combat Aerial Vehicles from China, 6 x A-29 Super Tucano expected in September, 2 x CH-3 and 4 x CH-4 UCAV will boost the airpower employment capabilities in support of joint operations. Speaking as the Reviewing Officer at the Passing Out Parade of 1,100 personnel of Basic Military Training Course (BMTC) 41/2020 recruits at the Nigerian Airforce base, Friday, Amao reminded the graduating recruits that they were joining the military at an auspicious time when the Armed Forces are involved in several operations to curtail insecurity across the country. According to him, “As the gains of our troops are being consolidated, you may be deployed to operational theatres to contribute your quota to our national security. “So, I urge you to operate within the rules of engagement as enumerated in the code of conduct for armed forces personnel involved in internal security operations. “You must respect and protect the innocent and law-abiding civilians whom you are paid to defend. “Treat them with respect and protect their rights. It is by doing so that you will be discharging your professional and constitutional duties.” He, however, assured Nigerians that the NAF in consultation with the other members of the Armed Forces and security agencies would continue to do all it takes to ensure that the security challenges in the country are speedily brought to an end. He added: “It is worth mentioning that we are expecting 8 aircraft in July, consisting of 6 x A-29 Super Tucano aircraft from the United States of America and 2 x Wing Loong Unmanned Combat Aerial Vehicles from China. “The remaining 6 x A-29 Super Tucano are expected in September while 2 x CH-3 and 4 x CH-4 UCAV will arrive in the country before the end of the year. “These additional aircraft will no doubt boost our airpower employment capabilities in support of joint operations and will be a game-changer in our various theatre of operations.” He reiterated that as personnel of the NAF, they were subject to both military and civil laws, “hence, we must submit ourselves to civil authority in accordance with democratic tenets.” The Military Training Center (MTC) was established in 1964 as a school under the Nigerian Airforce Tactical wing and later upgraded to a Military Training Wing. The 6 months training is aimed at equipping entrants into the NAF with basic military skills they require to function as NAF personnel.