National executives of the People’s Democratic Party have ruled out claims of leadership of a faction of the party in Anambra. Oborawharievwo Ewhrudjakpo, deputy governor of Bayelsa and leader of the gubernatiorial primaries committee for local government area delegates in Anambra called the factional leadership of PDP in Anambra led by Chukwudi Emeaba illegal. Ahead of governorship elections in Anambra this November, the party has been steeped in crisis with the emergence of two parallel chairmen in the state. One chairman has called off party primaries this weekend, the other insists primaries will hold as planned. The emergence follows a federal high court ruling in Abuja which removed the current chairman, Ndubuisi Nwobu, and replaced him with Ejike Oguebego. The controversial ruling comes two weeks before PDP in Anambra is due for primaries. Ewhrudjakpo  said there couldn’t have been a court judgment when the judiciary is on strike and  moreover there is a subsisting judgement from a court of competent jurisdiction since 2017 that affirmed the executive of Chief Ndubuisi Nwobu. Speaking also  the spokesman of the committee Uchenna Ogbodo said  the latest judgement is of no effect and  urge the aspirants to go about their consultation  without fears or any worries as the June date for the primary election remains sacrosanct. Ogbodo dismissed the allegations that the ward and local government delegate Primaries election was marred by irregularities, noting that the committee was  determined to ensure free, fair and credible excise. “We want to assure the public, the masses of  Nigerians and party faithfuls that  the present leadership of the PDP led by the National Chairman Prince Uche Secondus and the National Working Committee NWC and National Organizing Secretary Rtd Col Akobundu would ensure transparency, credibility straight records in the party to ensure and correct the story of the past and that the right thing is done in state , national and local government levels. “We promise to eschew  all kinds of corrupt practices and Irregularities that have been the bane of the past,” he said.