Ten members of a family in Gwanara community of Baruteen Local Government Area died after consuming a local herbal mixture on Friday. The tragic incident had left the Biogberu community, occupied by local Fulani indigenes, in shock and disbelief. Details about the incident were still sketchy as of the time of this report. Baruteen is one of the farthest local governments in Kwara North from the Ilorin metropolis. Some of the locals, who spoke on the issue on phone, said the village is several hours from the council’s capital. According to one of them, the victims are not migrating Fulanis but Fulani Borgu who are Kaiama indigenes. Council official confirms When contacted, the Transition Implementation Committee (TIC) Chairman of Baruteen, Abdulrasheed Ibrahim, told Daily Trust that he dispatched a team of investigators to the place on Tuesday but he is still expecting their return. “You know the place is far. I have since dispatched some security and humanitarian team to the place. “Up till this Wednesday morning, we are still expecting them. “What we know so far is that they are local Fulani who drank local herd that suspected killed 10 of them. Once my team is back, we will give further details in the incident,” he said. How it happened A statement by the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) for the state command, Ajayi Okasanmi (SP), disclosed that: “On 22/6/2021, at about 0700hrs, one Ibrahim Bonnie (22) of Fulani camp Biogberu, via Gwanara, reported at the police station that on 18/6/2021, one Okosi Musa(35) and one Worugura Junlin, an adult came to his mother by name Pennia Bonni (40) of same Fulani camp.” According to him, Okosi Musa and Worugura Junlin gave his mother, who was having a foot infection, a local herbal mixture purported to be the cure for her ailment. Ajayi added: ” She was told to ensure that all her family members take out of the mixture to prevent the spread of the disease to other members of the family. “After taking the local herbal mixture, the family members started dying and at the last count, 10 members, including the mother with the infected leg. “The Commissioner of Police, Mohammed Lawal Bagega, has ordered a discreet investigation into the incident, the two suspects are already helping the police in their investigation. “The Commissioner of Police advises sick members of the public to seek a medical solution in recognized medical homes spread across the length and breadth of the state to avoid the ugly incident of this nature.”