The Director of General Services of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Emmanuel Attah, has challenged the Sports Writers Association on Nigeria (SWAN), FCT Chapter to take the association to the next level. During a condolence/courtesy visit to the director’s office on Monday by the newly-elected executives of the SWAN, FCT Chapter, led by Haruna Bunmi, Attah told the ExCo to “breathe life into SWAN”. Attah, who was a former Super Eagles Coordinator, advised the ExCo members to discharge their duties truthfully without fear. Attah said: “You need to take FCT SWAN to the next level. “You are today the executives and others also contested against you. Everybody is one family. So, carry everybody along. “This is where I challenge the new ExCo that SWAN FCT chapter I know have been very vibrant and they need to do more. “As leaders, you need to bring everybody together as one family to always discharge their duty without fear or prejudice. “The chairman, in particular, I know him very well. He is the chairman today: he is someone who is forthright. “Remi, I know her very well. We used to call her female coach of the Super Eagles. She was always there for us. She was always supporting us. “Chris, Maxwell, Niyi, Yinka, I know all very well. So, I can see a wonderful team that has been assembled, a young vibrant team and we can call it the new generation.” The former chairman of FCT Football Association, who lost Flight Lieutenant Alfred Ayodeji Olufade, his son-in-law in the ill-fated plane that crashed and killed all 11 on board in May, thanked the SWAN ExCo for remembering him during these trying times. He said, “I also want to thank you for this condolence visit. I am humbled by this visit. I can’t believe that SWAN still remembers me. I am so grateful. “It’s painful when you look at the circumstances but then who are we to question God?” Those on the entourage of the SWAN FCT chapter ExCo are Bunmi Haruna, chairman; Maxwell Lawrence, Vice Chairman; Chris Onokpegu, Secretary, Remi Sulola, Assistant Secretary; Omo Unubun, Financial Secretary; and other members of the association, Elebute Olayinka: Niyi Busari, and Sunny Ejembi.