The pan-Yoruba socio-political organization, Afenifere, has challenged President Muhammadu Buhari to send a Bill on restructuring to the National Assembly. The challenge came following Buhari’s remarks in his Democracy Day speech that the responsibility for restructuring the country as being clamoured by some Nigerians lies with the National Assembly. But reacting to this yesterday, the Publicity Secretary of Afenifere, Comrade Jare Ajayi in a statement said asked the President to as a matter of urgency send the bill on restructuring and power devolution to the legislative arm. Doing this, the group noted, would “Nigerians to believe that he meant what he says.” On the president’s claim that his administration has not done badly in the last six years, Afenifere declared that “Nigerians were far better off in virtually everything in 2015 than they are presently.” “For the President to claim that the country is better now than in 2015 clearly shows that he is not in touch with reality or that he has a different measurement when comparing the two eras,” he added. The body regretted that the president confessed the seeming helplessness of his administration in combating the insecurity that was about to consume the country presently. The president had said that he “was ‘more pained than anyone can imagine with the ongoing security challenges because… they have increased the hunger, pain and anger in the land’. President Buhari needs not tell us all these as we are already aware and are feeling it. What is expected of him is to take concrete steps to tackle the challenges he enumerated so perfectly.” The President was also accused of being insensitive going by what he (the President) confessed that he told Governor Jide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State when the latter came to him with pictures of the destruction during the #EndSars protest in Lagos. Afenifere accused President Buhari of shifting blame and responsibilities when pressed on what his government ought to do. “Were this not to be so, he would not have hidden his inability to confront insecurity problems on the excuse that state governors are allegedly pocketing allocations meant for the local government councils in their respective states. “Also, he would not have sent Governors Seyi Makinde and Rotimi Akeredolu of Oyo and Ondo states back to go and face the insecurity problems in their states when he knew perfectly well that the tools to tackle the problem are not within the control of these governors.