The Federal Government has given the condition under which the ban imposed on Twitter will be lifted. On Friday, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information, announced the indefinite suspension of Twitter for alleged undue interference. The action of the government had sparked a global outrage. In a statement, The Diplomatic Missions Of Canada, The European Union (Delegation To Nigeria), The Republic Of Ireland, The United Kingdom And The United States, rejected the action. “We strongly support the fundamental human right of free expression and access to information as a pillar of democracy in Nigeria as around the world and these rights apply online as well as offline.” “Banning systems of expression is not the answer. These measures inhibit access to information and commerce at precisely the moment when Nigeria needs to foster inclusive dialogue and expression of opinions, as well as share vital information in this time of the COVID-19 pandemic,” the statement read. At a meeting with the foreign missions on Monday, Geoffrey Onyeama, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, said he invited the diplomats to clarify issues around Twitter ban. He said, “I felt it’s absolutely right and appropriate to take your comment very seriously and meet with you for us to in our usual friendly way discuss and share opinion with regard to that and clarify certain issues. “We are not saying that Twitter is threatening the country or any such thing; why we have taken this measure is to stop them to be used as platforms for destabilisation and facilitation of criminality or encouragement of criminalities. We want to use social media for good.” On when the ban will be lifted, Onyeama said there is no definite timeline but “The condition (for lifting the ban) would be responsible use of the social media and that really has to be it. “Lives matter; Nigerian lives matter and we have to do everything we can to preserve Nigerian lives. When we feel our goals are threatened, actions need to be taken.”