The Governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu, has urged investors to move to Ondo state saying Lagos state is already congested for business. Akeredolu stated this when he flagged off the construction of the Nigeria’s first privately owned Gas Inland LPG Terminal and Oil Palm Mills in Ore Industrial Park situated in Odigbo Local Government Area of the state. Akeredolu said the projects which are Public-Private Initiatives, are in furtherance of the commitment of his administration towards transforming the state to the economic and industrial hub of Nigeria. The Projects, the 2,000 Megatonnes Alles Charis LPG Inland Terminal and the Red Gold Oil Palm Mills, were flagged off in commemoration of his 100 days in office as a second term Governor. The LPG Inland Terminal and Red Gold Project is a Public-Private Partnership between the Ondo State Government and Private Investments. The Alles Charis LPG, aimed to deploy quantity 8 inland storage within the next 5 years, is the first Privately Owned and biggest LPG Inland Terminal in Nigeria while the Red Gold Project is a partnership between the Ondo State Government and the National Oil Palm Producing Association of Nigeria (NPPAN) with the objective of focusing on a large scale Palm Oil Cultivation and Production. Speaking at the event, Akeredolu assured the people of the State that his administration will continue to intensify conscious efforts to ensure the growth of existing industries in the State as well as creating an enabling environment to attract new investors. He explained that upon the inception of his Government in the year 2017, the state could not boast of having any industry, however his government has now attracted numerous industries into the State. According to him, “when we took over, the Ore Industrial Park was just a forest, however, within the space of 5 years, we have brought Linyi Hub which has 5 industries and three new ones to be added.” Akeredolu said through the Ore Industrial Park, over 120,000 jobs opportunities will be created in the State. He also expressed high optimism that the LPG plant will catapult Ondo State as the nation’s LPG distribution nerve centre. Speaking on the Red Gold Project, the Governor stated that Ondo State has a comparative advantage in Palm Oil Cultivation over other states and nations across the world and his government will ensure that it fully develop the facility that will bring in millions for the State. He also called on both local and foreign investors to invest in the state as his government is ready to provide the much needed incentives for them to thrive, stating that Lagos, the commercial headquarters of Nigeria, is already congested for business and that Investors should look into the direction of Ondo. Present at the event were the Secretary to the State Government, Princess Oladuni Odu, Special Adviser on Union Matters and Special Duties, Mr. Dare Aragbaiye, Commissioner for Information, Mr. Donald Ojogo, Managing Director of Ondo State Development and Investment Promotion Agency (ONDIPA), Mr. Boye Oyewumi and the Senior Special Assistant (SSA) on Agribusiness, Pastor Akin Olotu, among others.