The All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) has urged the Federal Government not to use brute force to suppress opposition voices but embrace dialogue and resort to justice and fairness. The National Publicity Secretary, APGA, Barrister Tex Okechukwu, made the plea on Sunday in Abuja as part of activities marking the six years of the current leadership of the party, under Dr. Victor Ike Oye. According to him, the government must do everything humanly possible to reignite the confidence of the people by doing away with acts capable of causing socio-political dislocations all over the nation. “The use of brute force to suppress opposition voices should be replaced with dialogue and resort to justice and fairness,” Okechukwu said. He recalled that exactly six years ago, the current leadership of APGA, under Ozonkpu Victor Ike Oye was elected at the National Convention held at the Prof. Dora Akunyili International Conference Centre, Awka. On the same occasion, the leadership of the Board of Trustees of APGA was inaugurated. He said, “It has been six years of ups and downs. Despite the obvious challenges we confronted we were able to keep our heads above water. We also recorded impressive results within the period under review. “Some of these results included winning of elective positions in Bayelsa, Taraba, Benue, Kaduna, Niger, Abia, Imo, Anambra States and the FCT. The biggest of these victories was the retention of the governorship seat in Anambra State in 2017 with 21/21.” The APGA spokesman also said that the party acquired a brand-new national office sitting on 4000 Square metres of land in Abuja, while the construction of a new edifice in Awka to serve as the headquarters of the party in Anambra State, the birthplace of the party, is going on well. “It is our vision to use the Anambra model to replicate it in the other states of the federation,” he added. He said that because of the mood of the nation, especially the heightened insecurity in the Southeast of Nigeria, the party has suspended all celebrations to commemorate the day. In its place, he said, the party opted for prayers and extension of charity to the poor and needy. “Our nation is passing through its toughest times since its evolution as a sovereign nation. This, therefore, calls for introspection and serious prayers by all Nigerians. We call on the federal government to take the bull by the horns and restore normalcy across the country,” Okechukwu said. He also said that the forthcoming Anambra State governorship election scheduled for November 6 this year is going to be a test for the party’s tenacity and inseparability as a united people.