Aare Ona kakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Adams has called on the international community to intervene in the protracted killings across the southwest region of Nigeria. Adams in a strongly worded letter to global bodies like the United Nation (UN), African Union, the United State, among others, said the development is threatening Nigeria’s union. The letter was titled, “Urgent Need to stop killings by Fulani Herdsmen in Yorubaland.” The Yoruba generalissimo stressed that it was the duty of the global community to intervene and address the issue in an holistic manner, betraying the inability of the federal government to stop the killing. He stated that the figure of prominent Yoruba people who have been murdered by killer herdsmen and their collaborators is rising on a daily basis. According to him, “the peace, stability and tranquility of Yoruba people in this geographical space called Nigeria are being tested by blood-thirsty maniacs through invasion of our land. He made reference to the invasion of Igangan, a rural community in Ibarapaland, Oyo State on June 6, 2021, saying many residents were massacred. The letter partly read: “This is to bring to your attention ‘a clear and present danger’ threatening the fragile union of our great country, Nigeria. “Senseless killings and massacres of Nigerians, almost on a daily basis, are tragically sliding toward an anarchical terminal point. “The inability or apathetic attitude of the Federal Government, pitiably as it is, is already compounding an already gory situation. “While you already know, through diplomatic sources and the media, what is going on in the world’s most populous black nation, Nigeria, I want to urgently alert you that an agenda bordering on pogrom is gradually being executed in Yorubaland. “Yorubaland has been put under serious pressure through payment of ransom – running into millions of naira – demanded by these conscienceless, unscrupulous and ruthless murderers. “Now, the agitation for them to leave our land has reached an alarming crescendo and the backing (that is the belief of our people) given to them by the Federal Government to continue to lay claim to the fact that ‘nobody can chase anybody away from any part of the country’, is not helping matters.”