The National Chairman of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Dr. Victor Ike Oye, has urged the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr. Alkali Baba, to arrest and prosecute those who convened an “illegal” National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of the party in fragrant violation of law. At a news conference on Wednesday, Oye described their action as antic of political thugs. He also charged the Director General Of Department of State service (DSS), Mr. Yusuf Magaji Bichi, to bring to justice, those behind the action he described as a national embarrassment. “The actions of the impostors is a threat to Nigeria’s democracy; where irresponsible people can wake up, gather people, go on national television and pay to embarrass people.” “The way such illegality could be addressed is very simple; it can be addressed through the amendment of the electoral act where you have to put in measures, an inbuilt mechanism to stop such situations from taking place,” Oye said. He said what happened on Tuesday, if not properly addressed, can give room to more serious national embarrassment. “People would be bolder to go on national television once you can pay the fee, go on air and announce whatever you like then the social media would air it, you know things nowadays spread in seconds.” “What I believe could be done is to make the situation, the conditions much more strict, it shouldn’t be once you can pay the bill you would be aired, no! You have to scrutinize it. “I know every TV station has a legal desk and when such an issue comes up you take it to the legal desk and take legal advice then they reach out to us in APGA ‘is there any conflict in your party?’ or you go to INEC to ascertain who is the rightful chairman of the party. “It is not in contention. I and my executives were elected on the 31 May, 2019 through a nationally recognized convention witnessed by INEC and since 2019 we have been doing our businesses without any hindrance but every four years people come up to cause confusion in the party.” He said while this may not be peculiar to APGA, as it is witnessed in every political party, it seems that of APGA is becoming very notorious, hence the need to stop such. “Again the security agencies have a role to play in this situation. If anybody does anything that is illegal, against the law such a person should be dealt with to serve as a deterrent to others which is the proper thing to do.”
“I call on the Inspector General of Police, the Director General of DSS to arrest all the people involved in the charade of yesterday. That is the only way we can have further confidence in them. They must arrest those people and persecute them but what they did was a national embarrassment not only to APGA but to all Nigerians of good will. “It has to be seriously addressed and I am also calling on Mr. President, this is a threat to Nigeria’s democracy where irresponsible people can wake up, gather people, go on national television and pay to embarrass people.” Speaking on the fortune of the APGA, especially the November 6 governorship election in Anambra State, Chief Oye, said the former APGA administration under Mr. Peter Obi has laid foundation for a new Anambra State and is being consolidated and improved by the incumbent Chief Willie Obiano, all of APGA.