Kano residents have expressed worry over the influx of outsiders into the city to start the commercial tricycle business popularly known as Adaidaita Sahu in the state. Most of the strangers, largely youths from Zamfara and Katsina States, have one thing in common in the tricycle operation that is conveying passengers to wrong destinations, according to the residents. It was gathered that sometimes some of the tricycle riders do not know popular places within the city like Gadon Kaya, Gidan Murtala, Kabuga, Kofar Famfo, Sharada, Kurna, BUK Road, State Road, Airport Road, Zoo Road, Zari’a Road and Tarauni . Kano/Jigawa Chronicle reports that Zamfara and Katsina States are among the most hit states in the North West with insecurity, especially banditry, which has left many dead and thousands homeless and jobless. Following the influx of the youths from these states to the city, Kano residents have started making calls on the authorities and relevant stakeholders to look into the matter with a view to preventing the commercial city from a new security challenge. Sarki Balarabe, who was recently conveyed to a wrong destination, said the Adaidaita Sahu rider who picked him was not familiar with the routes and terrain of the city and the average transport fare to major destinations. “I told him to take me to Kabuga from Emir’s Palace Road, but he was heading towards the direction of Kofar Mata and Kantin Kwari market road instead of the opposite way. I was very scared and I asked him if he really knows the way to Kabuga but he kept mum and later said he came from Zamfara, he didn’t know many places in Kano,” he said. A young woman, Aisha Ibrahim, had a similar experience when another stranger took her to Miller Road instead of Tarauni. The rider later admitted that he was from Katsina and had only been in Kano two weeks ago. Reacting to this, the Kano State Chairman of Adaidaita Sahu Riders, Sani Saidu Dankoli admitted that there were strangers in their midst. In an effort to address the problem, the chairman said the association was organising patrols across the city to ensure those in the business are registered, responsible and decent. “Whoever we suspect to be an outsider, we take him to our office to scrutinise him and ensure that he is a legally registered member,” he added. Also speaking, the Managing Director of Kano Road Transport Agency (KAROTA), Baffa Baba DanAgundi said they are aware of the influx of strangers and has commenced an operation, which is geared towards arresting any Adaidaita Sahu rider that is not registered. 