The member representing Ngaski/Shanga/Yauri Federal Constituency of Kebbi State at the House of Representatives, Yusuf Tanko Sununu, has confirmed the abductions of students and teachers of Federal Government College, Birnin Yauri, Kebbi State. Sununu, who addressed journalists at the National Assembly, said the number of students and teachers abducted was yet to be ascertained. He called on the Federal Government and security agencies to rise to the occasion and ensure the rescue of the abducted students and teachers. Sununu said bandits have been having a field day in his constituency. He said the southern part of the state has witnessed a lot of misfortune recently. “Not long ago we lost over 154 people from my constituency when they were traveling in a boat that capsized, and we could only account for 98 corpses and 22 survivors. “A week ago we had another calamity when bandits, according to eye witnesses, numbering about 300, each with AK-47 rifles, and using very strong motorcycles, came into my constituency. “They had a field day and operated for more than eight hours. Going from house to house, room to room, collecting money, handsets, motorcycles and cattle. “That led to a massive influx of internally displaced persons to the headquarters of the emirate in the town of Yauri,” he said. The lawmaker said they were able to convince to start going back to their respective areas. He, however, disclosed that, the bandits had left a message after the attack, saying they would be back. “Taking it seriously, some people refused to go back and today, they repeated what they had done earlier and they came into the constituency. “They were able to have access after a strong fight with the policemen that were guarding the Federal Government College, Birnin Yauri. They made inroad to the school. “They succeeded in kidnapping some teachers and an unaccounted number of students. Some of the students and security men are currently receiving care at the General Hospital Yauri following gun injuries,” he said. Daily Trust had reported how armed men broke into the school on Thursday.