A leading provider of Wholesale connectivity and data center services in West Africa, MainOne is hosting over 500 business leaders, C-Level executives, IT managers, tech influencers and thought leaders to the 6th edition of its flagship event #NerdsUnite holding today June 17, 2021. The first virtual edition themed, ‘Digital disruption for sustainability and growth’ will feature a keynote address and two panel sessions that will update stakeholders in the ICT sector on trends that are enabling companies to thrive in spite of the disruption of the COVID-19 pandemic. Nerds Unite 2021 will feature industry thought leaders in the local and international tech sector including the Founder and Group Managing Director, Interswitch Limited, Mr. Mitchell Elegbe; Chief Digital Transformation Officer, MTN Nigeria, Dr. Olubayo Adekanmbi; Chief Executive Officer, Margins Group, Ghana, Mr. Moses Baiden Junior; and Chief Investment Officer, GreenTec Capital Partners, Mr. Tomi Davies among other notable speakers. The first panel discussion titled ‘Business Resilience Driven by Digital Transformation’ will highlight how digital transformation can help organisations create a more agile and resilient way of working, enabling reduction of operational costs and delivering sustainable, competitive advantage while the second panel session sub-themed, ‘Accelerating the Digital Transformation Journey’ will underscore how digital technologies are accelerators of innovation as panelists share their experiences and insights. Commenting on expectations for this year’s event, the Chief Executive Officer of MainOne, Ms. Funke Opeke said, the first virtual Nerds Unite event comes at a time when businesses are focused on growth following the lull occasioned by the pandemic. She noted that participants will be drawn from a global audience who will join the event via Zoom. With over 3,500 participants since inception, NerdsUnite has showcased leading technology solutions and has hosted major players in the global and local IT industry. 