A member of the National Assembly, Hon Uzoma Nkem Abonta, has lashed out at Senator Orji Uzor Kalu who represents Abia North for allegedly misleading the public by claiming that the infrastructure currently being executed in Aba is being done by the federal government. In a video he circulated on Sunday, Rep Abonta who is representing Ukwa East/Ukwa West at the House of Representatives, accused Orji Kalu of “turning a campaign for elective position to a campaign of calumny, deceit, falsehood and wicked propaganda”. He accused Orji Kalu of deliberately spreading falsehood to sway victory for his younger brother, Mascot in Saturday’s bye-election. “I have heard the statements credited to Senator Orji Uzor Kalu that federal government is fixing and paying for the roads rehabilitation in Aba. As a former governor, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu ought to know the distinction between federal roads and state roads. “I strongly advise that campaign of calumny and deceit no longer be. Let’s for once make our campaign to be based on facts, reality and sound logic. My attention was indeed drawn to that statement. Such a statement is hazardous, careless, deceitful and calculated to deceive the people. “It means he does not understand the problem of Aba. I think that our campaign should be on facts, realty, verifiable figures. Let him tell us anywhere or any state where internal roads of a state are being done by the federal government. “If he does not understand the workings in Abia State and Aba in particular, then he should remain silent and let those who understand the workings of Aba represent the people of Aba. “I think that such a statement coming from him is meant to deceive the electorate. I doubt if Orji Kalu is speaking the minds of the federal government? Was he asked to say that or was he speaking from his heart? I doubt if the federal government would make such fallacious postulation. “Therefore, if his campaign is based on fake and deceitful statement, then the right people that know the terrain and the true position of things should be voted to represent Aba. I think that the era of deceitful politics is over. If the campaign is based on deceitful campaign, you want to use that to represent Aba at national level? “I advise the Aba electorates to open their eyes, look at the truth, look at the reality and vote in the right candidate who will represent them well. The time to act to salvage Aba is now,” he said.