Following incessant cases of kidnappings in Abaji Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), many residents have abandoned their homes. Daily Trust had reported how kidnappers have carried out many attacks in the area in the past few weeks. Residents of Anguwar Hausawa and Kekeshi communities have been the worst-hit. Although the police and members of the vigilante group in the area had foiled three different kidnap attempts, in which two of the kidnappers were shot dead, the gunmen have been returning to the area. After abducting a top civil servant on Thursday, the gunmen raided a Fulani settlement at Kekeshi, still in Abaji. After the incident, retired civil servants and some politicians were forced to relocate from the community. A resident of Anguwar Hausawa, Ibrahim Saleh, said he decided to move his family to Abaji town because of fear of them being kidnapped. The petty trader said he stays in the town to make end meet and goes back to his house during the day time. He said, “You know Anguwar Hausawa has suffered several attacks by kidnappers. And you can also remember that the recent one was the one that two of the kidnappers were killed and yet, they still abducted four residents who are still being held captive.” A teacher identified as Mrs Christiana said last Thursday’s attacks forced her to relocate from the area. “Even though, the attack was carried out at the senior staff quarters, the sound of their guns that night alone can cause high blood pressure. Hence, I had to relocate,” she said. Another resident, Edward Musa, who has also relocated, said he was forced to move with his family because of the frequent attacks. He said he has rented a two bedroom apartment for his family elsewhere, even though his house rent is yet to expire. A retired civil servant, who craved anonymity, said he couldn’t cope with the incessant attacks, hence, he decided to relocate from the area. “I just retired last year, and I realised that with the way the kidnappers are attacking residents, it’s not safe for me and my family,” he said. The spokesperson of the FCT police command, ASP Maryam Yusuf, neither answered calls nor replied a text message sent to her phone to find out  security measures put in place to tackle spate of kidnapping in the area.