Halita Digital Skills Academy is a trusted digital marketing training institute in Abuja, Nigeria. We focused mainly on imparting quality training in Digital Skills. Our goal is to deliver Practical Oriented Quality Education with real-time projects. Halita Digital Skills offers various Diploma and Short-Courses certifications to professionals, small business owners, freelancers and students on digital marketing who would like to embark on a new, exciting and in-demand career. In this training, you will learn how to create a blog, measure traffic through Google Analytics, make your content discoverable through SEO, promote your products through online advertising (Google Search, Display, Mobile and Video Platform), as well as learn Social Media marketing on platforms like Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, Twitter etc. You will also learn about driving traffic and sales through Inbound and Content Marketing and sending emails through platforms like MailChimp, Aweber, ConvertKit, Madmimi, SendinBlue etc Digital Marketing is a marketing approach to promote a product or service on various digital platforms. The primary goal of digital marketing is to reach your target audience based on their demographics, behaviours and interests to generate brand awareness, traffic and leads. Digital marketing is the most cost-effective marketing strategy with high ROI compared with traditional marketing. The goal of our Digital Marketing course in Abuja is to make you an expert in digital marketing strategies. The Professional Diploma in Digital Marketing is an in-depth 6 weeks training course based on live projects and interactive case studies that will provide you a perfect platform for gaining hands on experience and exposure to every minute aspect of digital marketing Our courses are 90% Practical and 10% Theoretical Training with 1 Year surpport after completion. The course syllabus is the most up-to-date digital marketing skills needed to thrive in today’s digital economy. The digital marketing course is best suited for Marketing Professionals, Business Owners, Career Changers and
Graduates who want to acquire digital skills to use it in the real-time world and measure effective digital marketing campaigns. The Digital Marketing Course at Halita Digital Skills is a premium quality course that provides training for Certification from Halita Digital Skills Academy and 10 other essential Certification exams including Google, Hubspot, and Facebook Blueprint. It covers 11 of the most vital modules of the Digital Marketing structure. Benefits of Digital marketing
Digital marketing platforms
Traditional Vs. Digital Marketing
Defining Marketing Goals
Latest Digital marketing trends
Case studies of Digital Campaigns WordPress is a free and open-source content management system written in PHP and paired with a MySQL database. Features include a plugin and a template system, referred to within WordPress as Themes. In this class you will learn to launch your website quickly with the help of a quick WordPress installation guide; create a quality website with a proper assembly of important subpages; install and work with plugins and widgets. Search Engine Optimisation course is designed to help you understand the concepts of search engine rankings, algorithms and master the secrets of ranking the site on top. This course will consist of both technical & non-technical aspects of SEO implementations. Our SEO course is divided into 7 modules. We will discuss each concept of SEO implementation with detailed theory and hands-on practicals. Social Media platform is the most engaging and have billions of active users. Learn how to use social media to create brand awareness and generate leads from social networks. We teach you practical methods of social media marketing and optimization to improve brand awareness and leads for your business. Our SMM Course covers in-depth concepts of Facebook Marketing, Facebook Advertising, Twitter Marketing, Pinterest, YouTube, Instagram and LinkedIn Marketing Strategies. Content marketing is a strategic marketing approach focused on creating and distributing valuable, relevant, and consistent content to attract and retain a clearly-defined audience — and, ultimately, to drive profitable customer action. Content marketing strategists specialize in creating a plan based on an organization’s goals and the needs of the desired audience. Most content marketing strategists can travel to meet with clients. They can manage other employees or contract personnel. Google Ads course is designed to make you understand and master the paid marketing strategies. Our AdWords course includes PPC, Display Ads, Shopping Ads, Video Ads, Mobile Marketing and Remarketing strategies. All the concepts will be explained on Live with Project. We are also providing the Google Ads Certification along with the course. Many of our students were able to pass the exam in the first attempt. We teach the concepts of all the six exams in our curriculum. Welcome to the Email Marketing Course that will teach you the top email marketing strategies that we use to gain thousands of new email subscribers every month, and make you thousands of dollars per year in revenue. Too many people just focus on social media these days. But as you’ll see in this module, email marketing has many unique and powerful advantages and why every business should be focussing on building their list. Affiliate marketing is the process where the affiliate partners drive sales to a brand with their marketing efforts for a commission on each acquisition. You will discover different popular affiliate networks, register with them, create affiliate links and start using them on your website. Simply put, affiliate marketing involves referring a product or service by sharing it on a blog, social media platforms, or website. The affiliate earns a commission each time someone makes a purchase through the unique link. There are also several short courses like Social Media, Search Engine, Growth Hacking For Entrepreneurs Classes, as well as a Digital Internship Program. The course fees for these several courses vary from 50,000 Nigerian Naira up to 400,000 Nigerian Naira. Contact: 0807-1855-559 Website URL: – https://halitadigitalskills.com/ Address: IBI Training Centre, Ademola Adetokunbu Crescrent, Wuse 2 Abuja, Nigeria Social Media Handles: Facebook Instagram, Twitter, LinkedIn, & YouTube 