The acting Managing Director of Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), Engineer Sule Ahmed Abdulaziz, says the company has acquired a new office for its Project Implementation Units (PIUs) to enhance the delivery of projects that would add nearly 4,000 megawatts (MW) of electricity to the national grid. He said this in Abuja noting that the PIUs are specialized units of TCN that ensure critical transmission line and substation projects are delivered within specification, quality and timeframe. He noted that the new office houses four PIUs financed by donor agencies – World Bank (WB), Agence Française de Développement (AFD), the African Development Bank (AfDB) and the Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA). He added that the project units are already implementing projects that will definitely add to TCN’s 8,100MW grid capacity. Abdulaziz said the management was also making efforts in the mainstream TCN which had enabled the company to successfully transmit successive all-time generation peaks achieved in the power sector, the latest being 5,801.60MW. The General Manager and Coordinator of the PIU office at TCN, Engineer Joseph Ciroma, listed some of the projects to include the ongoing AFD-funded Abuja Feeding Scheme bringing an additional 330kilovolts (kV) transmission line through Lafia, bringing to three the source of bulk power transmission into Abuja. The project will also add five new transmission substations in the FCT, among others. The World Bank project unit, Ciroma said, will address a nationwide transmission upgrade. Over 30 power transformers will be affected during the substations upgrade. Ciroma said 30MVA transformers will be replaced with 60MVA and 100MVA across substations. There are also line upgrading projects raising Onitsha, Delta and Kano lines to 1200MW each. Six substations will be built around Ogun and Lagos under the JICA project unit with four power lines TCN also said it has commissioned a new 60MVA, 132/33kV power transformer in its Kubwa substation in Abuja to provide more bulk power within Abuja.