A former Chairman of the then Nigeria Football Association, NFA, Alhaji Ibrahim Galadima has said he does not see anything special about the election of Amaju Pinnick into the Executive Council of the Federation of International Football Associations, FIFA. On March 12, the president of the Nigeria Football Federation defeated his only rival, incumbent Walter Nyamilandu of Malawi 48 votes to 8 to clinch the sole Anglophone slot that qualified him to be a member of FIFA Council for the next four years. Although the victory is still a topical issue among football stakeholders, Galadima who spoke to Daily Trust yesterday said he was also happy with the achievement made by Pinnick but maintained that there was actually nothing to over celebrate because it is not unprecedented. “I respect you enough to respond to this otherwise I had no intention of doing so. As you are aware, there have been divergent views as to how he was elected. “It is good that he was endorsed by the federal government. I believe it played a big role in his victory at the polls. “What he has achieved in less than seven years that he moved from state to national, and now global is good for him and Nigeria. “However, he shouldn’t forget that he is not the first and only Nigerian to be there. There is nothing so special about his achievement. Other Nigerians were there before him. Etubom Oyo Orok Oyo was there. Dr. Amos Adamu was also there. “Therefore, he is only the third person from Nigeria. He needs to reflect on that to be humble and sober even as he celebrates his victory,” said Galadima. The renowned sports administrator, therefore, called on the new member of FIFA Executive Council to do everything possible to silence his critics. “No matter what is going to come, he should try not to justify the views of those who feel strongly that his ambition is for personal reasons. “He should try to consult widely in order to get useful advice that will help him succeed in his new assignment,” said the Patron of Nigeria Olympics Committee.