Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu, Abia State governor, on Wednesday expressed thanks to God for giving him the opportunity to serve the state. Ikpeazu, who spoke during the second edition of his townhall meeting with the Abiriba community in Aba, said his background as “a son of a poor teacher”, made many to doubt if he can be a governor. Ikpeazu thanked pastors, priests and all those whom he said God has used through prayers to sustain him. “Some people saw the hands of God earlier on me, prayed for me to remain steadfast. At a point, I got tired and wanted to return to classroom as a teacher, but men of God kept praying for me. “Whatever good thing you see in Abia today, is by the grace and mercy of God. I’m just an instrument. So, I thank all the men God used in keeping Abia safe as God’s own state in reality,” he said. He thanked the Abiriba community for their peaceful conduct and love shown to one another. Ikpeazu urged the Abiriba community to remain peaceful and hardworking as ever, stressing that their business prowess and tenacity, are true reflection of what make a society safe and progressive. He commiserated with the Abiriba community for the demise of their son and former member representing Aba North/Aba South Federal Constituency in the National Assembly, Hon. Prestige Ossy. Ikpeazu went on to offer what he described as a token of N10 million for the continuation of his children’s education. He urged the Abiriba community to help him maintain the good relationship he had with the late Ossy by voting for the candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Hon. Chimaobi Ebisike, in the March 27th, 2021, bye-election for Aba Federal Constituency. Chief Nduka Onuoha, President, Abiriba Communal Improvement Union, Aba Branch, on behalf of the people, thanked the governor for appointing many of their sons to positions of authority in Abia. Onuaha commended Ikpeazu for his desire to improve road infrastructure in Abia and appealed to him to continue to give their sons and daughters the opportunity to participate in governance. He pleaded with the governor to complete the reconstruction of Abiriba Ring Road, which he began at during his first tenure.