President Muhammadu Buhari on Sunday led the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and its prominent members in congratulating Asiwaju Bola Tinubu on his 69th birthday anniversary. Buhari, in a statement by his spokesman, Femi Adesina, said Tinubu’s acumen and influence have continued to resonate around the country and beyond. The president felicitated with Tinubu, whom he described as a “patriot and statesman”, on the 12th colloquium, an intellectual gathering to commemorate his birthday that had over the years turned into a veritable opportunity for discussing topical national issues, and harnessing ideas that would move the nation forward. President Buhari, while speaking on the theme of the 12th Bola Tinubu Colloquium, ‘Our Common Bond, Our Common Wealth: Imperative of National Cohesion for Growth and Prosperity’, said the choice of further highlighting loyalty to the country and the shared vision that would bring harmony and well-being to everyone is most timely, clearly reflecting Sen. Tinubu’s patriotism and benevolence. The President said the former Lagos State governor had inspired many leaders and continued to nurture talents for the benefit of the country while acknowledging his role in the stability of the APC and advocating good governance. Similarly, Yobe State Governor and Chairman of the APC Caretaker/Extra-ordinary Convention Planning Committee, Mai Mala Buni, in a birthday message yesterday said Tinubu had dedicated his life to the service of humanity, promotion of good governance, growth and development of democracy in Nigeria. “As a leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is passionate about the future of the people. As a developmental democrat, he is a proponent of due process and rule of law. His humble and humane disposition made him a great philanthropist. The APC family is so proud of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for many achievements. “We pray to Almighty God to grant Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu many more prosperous years, good health, strength and wisdom to continue serving humanity,” Buni said. Senate President Ahmad Lawan also congratulated Tinubu, on the occasion of his 69th birthday. He hailed Tinubu as a political strategist and astute administrator who, he said, has in three decades of playing an active role in politics impacted many lives and greatly contributed to improving the polity. “His achievements and the development foundations he laid in Lagos as the first elected governor of the state in the Fourth Republic have secured his place in the history of the state,” he said. Ekiti State Governor and Chairman, Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), Dr Kayode Fayemi, in a congratulatory message signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Yinka Oyebode, in Ado-Ekiti, described the Lagos former governor as a distinguished Nigerian and a leader who is courageous, reliable, dependable and passionate. “Asiwaju Tinubu’s ability to identify, nurture and engage talents is unequalled. His life has been a testimony of human capital development in an unrelenting struggle for a better life for the people,” he said. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State also said in a birthday message yesterday that Tinubu had made tremendous contributions to the development of Nigeria, adding that the country’s democratic history cannot be complete without him. On his part, the Speaker of House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, described Tinubu as a foremost democrat and core progressive. In a statement on Sunday which he personally signed to felicitate with the former Lagos State governor on the occasion of his 69th birthday, Gbajabiamila said, Tinubu’s doggedness, determination, resilience and commitment alongside other patriots made it possible for the entrenchment and deepening of democracy in Nigeria. Similarly, Ogun State governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, on Sunday, described Tinubu as an exemplar, icon of democracy and true elder statesman. According to the statement, Tinubu’s giant strides in business, politics and governance have stood him out among his contemporaries in the country. While noting that Tinubu had laid a solid foundation for continuity of good governance in Lagos, Abiodun added that through his political astuteness, Tinubu had ensured that the Southwest and indeed Nigeria, benefitted from the progressive politics of the APC. “On behalf of my family, the government and good people of Ogun State, I felicitate with the National Leader of our great party, APC and statesman, H.E. Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu on his 69th birthday. “Your towering accomplishments, from the corporate world to being Senator of the Federal Republic representing Lagos West to being elected twice as governor and as the only governor standing during the 2003 tsunami, are testimonies of a political icon,’ he said. Tinubu arrives Kano Tinubu arrived in Kano on Sunday ahead of his 69th birthday colloqium, holding in the city. Although he has not officially declared his intention to contest the presidential poll in 2023, but his body language has shown that he is warming up for the race. Also, many groups have emerged rooting for him. One of our correspondents reports that Tinubu arrived Kano ahead of a meeting with the Northern Council of Traditional Rulers of Nigeria slated for today. Upon arrival, Tinubu visited the palace of the Emir of Kano to pay his homage. Speaking at the palace, the APC bigwig said the country was passing through trying times, noting that only unity and prosperity would allow it to excel and be prosperous again. “Nigeria is at a critical stage of its life and the only thing that would make it survive is unity and understanding. Therefore, Lagos and Kano, which have come through this over time, must show the way,” he said. Responding, the Emir of Kano, Aminu Ado Bayero, commended Tinubu for choosing Kano to celebrate his 69th birthday anniversary, insisting that alone was a testimony to the unity and love he has for Nigeria. By Saawua Terzungwe, Muideen Olaniyi, Abdullateef Salau, Balarabe Alkassim (Abuja), Habibu Umar Aminu (Kano), Christiana T. Alabi (Lagos) & Raphael Ogbonnaiye (Ado-Ekiti)