Malam Danladi Sanusi Maiyamba was recently appointed the 16th Mai Tangale of Tangale Chiefdom, Billiri Local Government Area of Gombe State. Prior to his announcement as the paramount ruler by Governor Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya, there was violence in Billiri, which led to loss of lives and property. In this exclusive interview with Daily Trust, the new Mai Tangale spoke on his plans for the chiefdom and the effort to unite his people after a tight race that almost divided the Tangale along religious lines. Excerpt: How did you feel when you were announced as the new Mai Tangale? I felt fulfilled having inherited this throne from my forefathers for many generations. Therefore, I was full of praise to Almighty Allah for giving me the opportunity to ascend this throne. I am also grateful to Governor Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya for his doggedness in ensuring that due process and the constitution were strictly followed in arriving at my appointment as the 16th Mai Tangale. Have you ever dreamt of ascending the throne? It is the wish of every prince as there is no prince that doesn’t want to become a king. But to be honest, I have never thought that one day I would be the Mai Tangale. But when the opportunity knocked on the door with a vacancy for the throne following the demise of our father, late Dr Abdu Buba Maisheru II, I threw my hat into the contest and as Allah wishes it, among the 18 other contestants, the governor found me worthy to become the new Mai Tangale. I will forever be grateful to him and the nine Tangale Chiefdom kingmakers who also recommended me among the top three to be considered by the government. This traditional stool is a service to humanity and having grown up in the system, which my forefathers held for generations, I would say I feel honoured to occupy the coveted stool to lead my people as the 16th Mai Tangale. Before your appointment as the Mai Tangale, there were protests in Tangale land. How are you going to rule over a people who are openly against your emergence as their king? First of all, I must commend Governor Yahaya for the matured manner he handled the upheaval and within a short period of time the situation was brought under control. Secondly, in Tangale/Waja area which comprises the four LGAs of Balanga, Billiri, Kaltungo and Shongom, we consider ourselves brothers and sisters irrespective of the faith one is practicing. It is very common to find siblings or husband and wife practicing different religions. For instance, one of my fellow contestant for the Mai Tangale stool, Dr Musa Idris Maiyamba, is my nephew and a Christian, while I am his uncle but a Muslim. As such, he cannot do anything that will harm me and I will not also do anything to harm him. Therefore, we believe the needless protest was organised by people who don’t mean well for the Tangale/Waja and the people of Billiri LGA. Because there was never a religious crisis in our land and I believe this minor unrest that was already quelled by the government will not repeat itself. Moreover, I am going to be a father and king for all people of Tangale, irrespective of their religious background, whether they supported me or not. So, my appeal to them is, let’s come together as brothers and sisters to develop our area and support the people. I have no grievances against anybody, Allah has bestowed on me the heavy duty of leading the Tangale people at this trying moment and I promise to lead them sincerely with justice and fairness. I have also reached out to other contestant and extended a hand of friendship to them. In fact, some few hours after receiving my appointment letter, I communicated with one of the top contestants, he congratulated me and promised to be at the service of the Tangale people whenever his attention is needed. What are your plans for the chiefdom? My major concern now is to reconcile and unite the Tangale people, to be able to attract development projects and services that will improve the standard of living of our people. So, I will use my influence and contacts to bring anything positive that will benefit the people of the Tangale Chiefdom. But that will not be possible without understanding and peaceful coexistence among the people. Let me use this medium to call on all people of Tangale to eschew violence and embrace one another and shame those that want to create disharmony among us. We have no other place than Billiri, please let’s forget the past, forgive each other and forge ahead.