The Peoples Redemption Party has expressed concern over the security challenges in Nigeria, saying the country is graduating into a new and dangerous phase of anomie. PRP National Chairman, Malam Falalu Bello, said this in Abuja on Wednesday at the second media dialogue of the party. He said efforts to tackle the nation’s socio-political challenges were not working because the ideal political solutions were not genuinely applied. He said Nigeria “is being buffered by spates of terrifying developments threatening to throw the nation into anarchy and bloodletting which shall inevitably lead to the erosion of the country’s corporate existence.” Bello said the citizenry should be licensed to bear guns to protect themselves if they could not be protected by the state. “From the decades-old insurgent violence in the Northeast, the irredentist and separatist agitations of the Southwest, South-south and Southeastern flanks of the country, and the perennial farmers/herders conflicts and rural banditry in the Northwest and North-central regions, Nigeria is now graduating into a new and dangerous phase of social anomie. “The victims of Boko-Haram in the Northeast, banditry in Northwest and North-central and the tribal killings in the Southwest and Southeast are preponderantly the ‘talaka’, the poor Nigerians that are being continuously manipulated by the rich to continuously rule and dominate them. “The killers, under whatever name and guise, should realize that it does neither them nor their victims any good for these killings to continue as they’re simply being manipulated by the elite to kill the victims. “We, as your party, urge all to stop wagging war against each other and begin to lawfully engage your real enemies in PDP and APC. “The ruling class in these parties are the saboteurs and your real enemy that you need to dislodge through the political process,” he said. The PRP chairman said the fundamental political and economic problems must be tackled head on. “A political recruitment system which is heavily weighted in favour of the money-wielders and plutocrats can only produce political and public managers who work in the interest of moneyed and propertied classes, both domestic and foreign. “This is what the Nigerian talaka must change and change urgently if the nonsense going on in the name of governance must stop. “The downtrodden must organize themselves to publically take over power of the plutocracy must stop,” he said. Bello said the fight against corruption as one of the mantras of the Buhari Administration should really begin by addressing corruption at structured level of the society.