Iliyasu Abdu is a chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) from the North Central. He is contesting the party’s chairmanship against six former governors. In this interview, he speaks on how he would make a difference if given the mandate among others. Excerpts: What is your assessment of the APC journey in the nation’s political landscape so far? APC has fared very well. If you look at the interventions, the APC government has done well from 2015, in terms of monetary value through social development and intervention programmes. Nigeria is a dynamic country with over 200 million people. People will not agree that everybody is enjoying the APC led government. But in all sincerity, the majority of Nigerians will agree that the APC government is doing well. You are in the race for APC chairmanship. Who are the bigwigs behind your campaign? I came out to discountenance the issue of moneybags. The youths of this country will take back the country from the moneybags; from people looking for one position or the other. What will you do differently if given the opportunity to lead the party? Sincerely, I will eliminate moneybags. I will return the party to the grassroots. I will empower the grassroots. Before coming to the ward, we will empower the polling units. There are one hundred and twenty thousand polling units and must be empowered.  So, if they are empowered then I think we can eliminate moneybags. What will you do in the event the slot is not allotted to the North-Central where you come from? This is an issue of policy. I am coming here to give my best. So, if it’s not within my zone, the next person that is coming in, I will offer him my expertise. I will offer him my expertise so we can move this country forward. The main issue is the leadership of the party. The governor of your home state of Kogi is in the race for the APC’s presidential ticket and you are aspiring to be the party’s national chairmanship. What are your chances? As I always say, it takes a King to have a Kingdom. My governor is eminently qualified to be president of this country. He is a young man, dynamic and a two-term governor. I am also very eminently qualified to be chairman of this party. So, if it means the people that will make this country perfect will come from the same village so be it. Dark clouds are gathering in the APC over zoning of the party’s offices. Don’t you think you will hit the rocks? The issue of zoning or rotation should not be a hindrance to the success and well-being of a nation. If everybody from my village will be a minister, everything works perfect and everybody is happy, no problem. Six former governors are also in the race for the position of chairman. Are you not worried? The former governors have failed, so we are taking the party back to the people. They have nothing to offer. So let them take the back seat. They believe that Nigeria belongs to them. So people don’t want to challenge them.  That is why we are where we are.  But I will defeat them. As far as President Buhari has allowed new entrants into the party, we are coming to change the status quo and the way you can change the direction of this country is through party politics. What do you make of the APC membership registration and revalidation exercise? Well, you know this country is dynamic like I said earlier. People have their own ideas with different views. But a political party is supposed to accommodate everybody. And I think it is a very good idea for revalidation and welcoming of new members into the party. Why is it difficult to resolve crisis in the APC? APC was formed by a merger of different political parties and set of people with different political views. So, definitely you should have that kind of skirmishes. Even your tongue and mouth do have issues at times. It is a normal thing. As time goes on, this too will be resolved and there will be peace in the party.  What President Buhari is doing gives everybody the opportunity to participate actively. So I can assure you that these issues will be resolved.  We need a God-fearing young chairman to move the party to the next level. Some politicians have the belief that when Buhari’s tenure expires in 2023, the APC would collapse. What is your view? What is missing in this country is integrity. So, if Buhari leaves the scene and the party collapses, the youths will be blamed.  Let us keep building on the legacy of his integrity and honesty. That is what we want. And to do this we have to be committed. We must be the change agents.