The Niger State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has suspended a former Governor, Dr Mu’azu Babangida Aliyu, over allegations of anti-party activities, including “working against the reelection of ex-President Goodluck Jonathan. This was contained in a communique issued at the end of an emergency Stakeholders’ meeting in Minna on Monday. The communique, signed by 22 members of the committee, stated that the decision was taken against the former governor as a result of six allegations leveled against him which the party in Chanchaga Local Government Area of the state found very disturbing and inimical to the party’s progress. The communique, which was titled ‘notice of suspension of Dr. Mu’azu Babangida Aliyu from the PDP, Chanchaga LGA,’ also disclosed that the former governor worked against former President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan and the party’s governorship candidate in Niger State, Alhaji Umar Nasko, by supporting and funding the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2015 with the sum of N450million to defeat his own party. The communique, which was made available to journalists in the state, said the allegations included “causing disaffection within the party hierarchy even after several peace efforts. “String and verifiable allegations of anti-party activities leading to cracks in the party since 2014 that led to loss of Government at the center and the state levels. “This includes disobedience to then President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan and working against his re-election success in 2015”, the communique noted. The communique further blamed the former governor, saying “he supported and funded the opposition, APC in 2015 with the sum of N450million to defeat his own party for personal and selfish reasons. “Refusal to participate and attend party activities; Undermining and working against the resolutions of party organs, especially the state caucus and causing division that has led to inability to resolve the issues surrounding the position of state legal adviser that has been unoccupied since 2015 in his own local government area.” The Party said further that; “these and many others have led to the immediate suspension of Dr Mu’azu Babangida Aliyu from the Peoples Democratic Party in Chanchaga local Government”. The meeting was attended by eight ward chairmen of the party out of the 11 wards. Efforts to get the former governor’s reaction was unsuccessful as he didn’t respond to calls and messages sent to him as at the time of filing this report.