Kaduna State has witnessed dozens of violent attacks in the past two months. Heinous as this is, it has unfortunately failed to catch the attention of the nation as the killings in Zamfara and Katsina states. Recent news reports revealed that over 200 people were killed during the period and 60 others injured. The attacks took place in eight local government areas of the state, namely Igabi, Chikun, Birnin Gwari, Kajuru, Giwa, Kauru, Zangon Kataf and Zaria. The reports attributed the incidents to bandits and gunmen. So far, there is no indication that the attacks have abated. On Wednesday, the Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, unveiled the 2020 annual security report at the Sir  Kashim Ibrahim House, which showed that 937 people were killed in 23 local governments that year. Considering the number of local governments affected the consequences are enormous. It is clear that the people in these areas are no longer living a normal life. For example, they cannot go to their farms, or to the markets or travel in safety, which means that agricultural and economic activities are crippled. In the past, it was the violence in southern Kaduna that bedevilled the state. Now it has been compounded by banditry. This development is as disheartening as it is surprising, because Kaduna is one state in the country that has the wherewithal to tackle security issues. It is home to the largest military formations – One Div, the Nigerian Army Depot, Jaji, NDA and the Nigeria Air Force Base. It is also the zonal headquarters of the police and the paramilitary organisations. Some of these agencies have been in Kaduna since the First Republic and they, therefore, know the terrain well. Also, because Kaduna had served as the capital of the old Northern region, many retired bureaucrats and technocrats have made it their home. Ordinarily, it is expected that in addition to the heavy security presence, the government would draw from the experience and wisdom of the retired bureaucrats to effectively tackle the security challenges in the state. There is no excuse for the killings in the state. Governor Nasir el-Rufai should activate the conflict resolution mechanism in order to bring to an end the circle of violence that has persisted in the state for far too long. While receiving the report Wednesday, El-Rufai again repeated that security collaboration with Niger State and the neighbouring North Western states initiated in 2015 to fund a military operation in Kumuku and Kuyanbana forest range to “sustain or expand into a campaign of continuous, simultaneous operation against the bandits” was not successful, which means that for good six years, not a lot has been achieved. The governors concerned should rise above petty quarrels and team up to end this security challenge that is consuming the lives of their citizens on daily basis. Also, it is a known fact that attacks in Kaduna take various forms. Apart from bandits, one community can take on another or there could be reprisals for incidents that may have occurred a long time ago.  To rid Kaduna of killings, therefore, all stakeholders must be engaged in the fight. While we call on the government to do its part, the residents of the state must also learn to live together. Amongst themselves they can decide to put an end to the attacks by accommodating one another and fishing out the criminals in their midst. They can also assist security personnel through the provision of information that can lead to arrest and prosecution. Traditional rulers have a huge role to play as well. They have a hold over their subjects and constant meetings on the need to live in peace will help the situation.  We also have the religious leaders who oftentimes have a huge following. They should use their platforms to call for a change of attitude amongst the people. They should constantly preach peace so that it becomes entrenched in the people, that way, all forms of killings will stop.