Bandits have abducted students and teachers from UBE Primary School in Rama, a village in Birnin Gwari Local Government Area of Kaduna State. Members of the community told Daily Trust that the incident occurred while pupils were trooping into the school around 9am on Monday. Abdulsalam Adam, a resident, said the gunmen came on about 12 motorcycles. “I have been told that three teachers and some pupils have been abducted but we are trying to ascertain the true situation. Right now, our vigilante boys and other volunteers have gone after the bandits,” he said. “We are in the school right now, what we are trying to do is comb the bushes because some of the children ran into the bush. So, we don’t know how many were abducted at the moment.” Mai Saje Rama, another resident, said: “There is a particular parent whose name is Halilu. He said he saw them carry his son on a motorcycle. Most of them decided to brave it by going after the bandits. We are in the school and we have sent for security agents but they have not arrived yet.” Mohammadu Birnin Gwari, a resident of Birnin Gwari, said two of his brothers were among the teachers abducted. He gave their names as Umar Hassan and Rabiu Salisu Takau. However, the Councilor of Rama, Aliyu Isa, told Daily Trust that no pupil was abducted. He said the bandits attacked a nearby village and abducted two persons and also stole cows. Kaduna State Commissioner of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, did not respond to calls and a text message sent to his phone. Daily Trust reports that this latest abduction happened 24 hours after security agents thwarted an attempted abduction of 307 students of Government Science Secondary School in Ikara Local Government Area of the state and another attack at the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) quarters in Igabi LGA of the state. On Thursday night, bandits had invaded the Federal College of Forestry Mechanisation, Afaka, in Igabi LGA and abducted 39 students comprising 23 females and 16 males. Security agents had earlier rescued 180 of the students but the gunmen who made away with 39 students are now demanding for a ransom of N500 million.