From Hameed Oyegbade, Osogbo & Abubakar Sadiq Isah
An auto crash that occurred on Ilesa-Ife road on Monday morning has claimed the lives of two persons including a journalist with Unique FM radio station in Ilesa, Sunday Alakinde. The crash occurred around Rock Villa, opposite Old Sazo in Ilesa, according to eyewitnesses. The accident involved a white luxurious bus with registration number LND 322 XY and a Blue 406 Peugeot Saloon car with registration number SMK 312 GQ. The death of the journalist came as a shock to many, particularly those that listened to his programme on the radio on Sunday evening as they received the news of his death on Monday morning. Fifty-four people who include 34 men and 20 women were involved in the accident while the journalist and a man whose identity could not be ascertained died. Many people sustained injury in the accident and were taken to Wesley Hospital Ilesa for medical treatment while the corpses of those that died were deposited at the hospital morgue. The operatives of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) and Nigeria Police, Ijamo Divisional Headquarters, Ilesa, arrived at the scene of the accident and evacuated the corpses, rescued the victims and cleared the road. The Sector Commander of the FRSC, Osun State command, Mrs Kudirat Ibrahim, confirmed the incident to Daily Trust. Speaking through the FRSC Public Relations Officer, Agnes Ogungbemi, the sector commander said the accident was caused by speed limit violation. Meanwhile, four persons were seriously injured after two vehicles collided at Piri village, on the Abuja-Lokoja road. A witness said the accident happened around 2:12pm when a Mercedes Benz with registration number MSU 378 NA from Lokoja axis overtook dangerously and collided with a Golf car with registration number AE 750 NAS. He said the four victims, two men and two women, were rescued and taken to the hospital by men of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) in Kwali. When contacted, the Yangoji unit commander of the FRSC, ACC Anthony Egwu, confirmed the accident, which he attributed to speed limit violation and dangerous overtaking. 