The leadership of the African Action Congress (AAC) has disowned its presidential candidate in the 2019 election, Omoyele Sowore, over his planned anti-INEC and other protests in the country. The National Chairman of AAC, Leonard Nzenwa, told reporters on Wednesday in Abuja that Sowore in a letter to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) claiming to be the National Chairman of the party amounted to impersonation. According to him, Sowore was presently unknown to the party as he had been expelled by the National Convention, being the highest decision-making organ of the party. He also said that the convener of the Revolution Now’s utterances and behaviour have become a security risk and should be investigated by the security agencies before he plugs the country into crisis. Nzenwa, who is also the National Chairman of Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC) said that apart from the court judgement delivered on 12th July, 2019, by Justice I.E. Ekwo of the Federal High Court Abuja, affirming the suspension of Sowore, the party’s National Convention held in Owerri on 9 August 2019 removed his as the party’s chairman and also expelled him from the party. “Last week some group of people led by one Omoyele Stephen Sowore, a former member of our great party, who was not only suspended and removed as National Chairman of the party but also expelled over various proven allegations of financial recklessness and misappropriation of party funds, abuse of party constitution, high-handedness among others, started displaying and carrying out criminal actions, under the name of our great party thereby committing various crimes thereof,” Nzenwa said. He said following various judgments and Orders of different Courts of competent jurisdiction affirming him as the National Chairman of the party, Sowore in exercise of his constitutional rights, filed an Appeal at the Court of Appeal and which is still pending before the Court. “After he went on appeal and could not perfect his brief with his lawyers, he now resorted to self-help and descended so low as to turn around to procure a known Motor Park ballyhoo in Nyanya, outskirt of Abuja to dress and impersonate as a native doctor and brought him into the hallowed chambers of the court to scare, intimidate and ridicule members of the bar and benches thus desecrating the temple of justice in the process. “Our great party on 9 August, 2019 at Owerri, Imo State held its National Convention, wherein the formerly suspended Omoyele Sowore was duly removed as the National Chairman of AAC and also expelled from the party; and the exercise was duly monitored by INEC in line with the law and this was widely reported across all media,” Nzenwa said. He regretted that Sowore, in submitting the said letter to INEC, came with bus load of his criminal support group drawn largely from his “Revolution Now” an outlaw gang currently under watch by the security agencies. “In the process, Sowore flagrantly disturbed public peace at the INEC headquarters, incited his outlaw group to disturb the peace of the public place, caused immeasurable nuisance. “Again, on the 3 March, 2021 Mr. Sowore again mobilized a gang of fiery looking hireling to the INEC head office in Maitama Abuja and a visibly angry Sowore declared to his gang that if by the 15 March, 2021 and INEC does not restore him as the National Chairman of our great Party, he would mobilize members of gang to shut down INEC offices nationwide. “He (Sowor believes he has radicalized his members enough to launch this attack hence his declaration at the INEC office that his gang were not afraid of arrest or being jailed. This is clearly a threat to national security.” He added that these latest moves and mobilization by Mr. Sowore are in clear violation of the bail conditions granted him by the Federal High Court Abuja and other courts. He added that since Sowore is facing criminal trial where part of his bail condition is that he must not be part of the very act he has perpetrated at the INEC office, he has violated the terms of his bail, and that his bail is urgently revoked for public good and should be accordingly prosecuted.