Huge reprieve came the way of struggling Lobi Stars on Sunday after they survived Plateau United’s scare to win 3-2 in the 2021 NPFL week 15 fixture played at the Aper Aku stadium. The victory is coming few days after abysmal performances forced the vice-chairman of the club, Mike Idoko to leave the Makurdi based side. After a barren first half, diminutive Douglas Achiv opened scoring for Lobi Stars in the 47th minute, Austin Ogunye doubled the lead from the spot in the 56th minute before Jimoh Oni made it three after 10 minutes. Undaunted by the looming defeat, Plateau United kept fighting till Mohammed Zulkifilu reduced the deficit in the 70th minute. And in the third minute of second half added time, Zulkifilu stepped forward again to score from the spot to close proceedings at 3-2. Plateau United ended with 10 men following the straight red card to their goalkeeper Chinedu Anozie when he was adjudged to have illegally stopped Jimoh Oni’s goal bound move in the 88th minute. In Okigwe, Kano Pillars were denied the chance to go top of the table as they were trounced 4-1 by merciless Abia Warriors. A brace by Obioma Chukwuemeka (34th and 59th) and a goal each by Godwin Obaje (21st) and Daniel Wotlai (83rd) was enough to send Pillars crumbling despite Nyima Nwagua’s consolatory goal in the 37th minute. Following the defeat, Pillars immediately dropped from second to third as Enugu Rangers earned a hard fought 1-0 win over hard fighting Adamawa United to move to second. Although they have the same 27 points with Rangers, Kwara United who were held 0-0 by Heartland in Ilorin are still on top of the table based on superior goal difference of plus seven. In Bauchi, Wikki Tourists also left it late to beat Wolves 1-0 courtesy of Idris Guda’s goal, Dakkada FC piped Katsina United 1-0 in Uyo but FC IfeanyiUbah were forced to 0-0 by Rivers United in Nnewi. The other match between Sunshine Stars and Nasarawa United in Akure was said to be disrupted by irate fans and will be concluded this morning. The first half of the match ended goalless.