The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has commended the judiciary an election returning officer accused of corruption, saying more will be brought to book. Peter Ogban, a professor of soil science at the University of Calabar, was jailed for manipulating the result of Akwa Ibom northwest senatorial election and attempting to foist APC candidate Godswill Akpabio on the people. The spokesman of the party, Kola Ologbondiyan, in a statement on Thursday also hails the court courage to stand on the side of the people and handed the jail term. PDP called the ruling a “huge lesson for compromised individuals working for the APC to subvert the will of the people”. “The PDP asserts that the long arm of the law will soon catch up with other corrupt returning officers, including some shameless professors who were heavily bribed and compromised by the APC to alter results and rig it into power at various levels in the 2019 general elections. “It is shameful that individuals who had attained the peak of enviable career in the academia could submit themselves as willing tools in the hands of a fraudulent, debased and manipulative political party, like the APC, to alter election results and subvert the collective will of the people in the 2019 elections. “Such individuals can now see the deplorable situation of economic depression, excruciating hardship, terrorism, killings, kidnapping, social and infrastructural decay, which their fraudulent and unpatriotic action has plunged our nation. “If these unpatriotic elements had not manipulated our electoral process in favour of APC and allowed the will of the people to prevail, our nation would not have found herself in this sorry state. “Our party holds that this courageous judgment would stand as a deterrent to the compromised returning officers and a signal to the APC that result alterations will have no space in the 2023 general election. “Ahead of the off season elections as well as the 2023 general elections, the PDP urges Nigerians and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to remain vigilant as more effort is being made to bring other compromised electoral officers, who brought the present misfortune on our nation, to book”.