The acting general manager, FCT Water Board, Dame Joy Okoro, has assured that water supply will be restored to residents of Kubwa, Gudu, Gwagwalada, Airport and University of Abuja by Monday evening. Residents of the aforementioned areas have experienced water scarcity for the past one week, but Okoro, while speaking with journalists, said efforts were intensified to fix the disruption in the supply channel and ensure residents get their taps running again. She said the damaged pipe that supplies water to treatment plants three and four at the Lower Usuma Dam, Bwari Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) is being fixed. “Customers in phase one – Garki 1 and II, Wuse 1 and 2, Asokoro, and Asokoro extension – are having regular water supply. “Those that are not getting water supply right now are our customers in Kubwa, Gwagwalada, Airport, University of Abuja and Gudu. “We sent out water tankers to service all these people so that we can alleviate their suffering from the situation. “We have an issue on our pipeline that services phases three and four treatment plants, which disrupted water treatment plant operations because the whole water line servicing the treatment plant has an issue,” she further explained. The head of the Department Distribution, FCT Water Board, Abolade Lawal, who led journalists to the site of the water disruption, explained that one of the Viking joints spoiled and it was difficult importing it from France due to COVID-19 restrictions in the country. “We are currently cutting and filing the pipe, which will take us to the evening of today. And tomorrow, we are coming back to install all that have been removed so that the waterline can be put into use again, and by tomorrow, we would have finished welding works. “Thereafter, we will do the coating on Saturday, and we need to leave it to dry. But it will take us about one day for the process to be completed and the water to get into the pipe and the water treatment plant to begin operation again,” he said.