Anambra State Police Command has declared Sabina Izuora wanted on allegation of child trafficking, stealing, forgery and perjury. The command made the declaration on Thursday while parading Rejoice Raymond aged 39 years, her aged mother Chidi Felicia Nwafor, 80 from Umunya in Oyi Local Government Area of Anambra State for child trafficking and torturing. CSP Haruna Mohammed who paraded the two suspects urged the general public to apprehend or report at the nearest police station, or call police emergency number 07039194332, whenever they see Mrs Sabina Izuorah . According to Mohammed Sabina Izuorah was formerly a staff of Social welfare Department Awka South Local Area, but recently transferred to Social Welfare Department Ihiala Local government Area . Recalled that on the 19/2/2021, following an intelligence report, police operatives attached to 3-3 Police Station, Nkwelle Ezunaka, in conjunction with the local vigilante group, raided a house at the Federal Housing Estate, 3-3 Area, Onitsha, and arrested one Rejoice Raymond , ‘f’, aged 39 years, and Mrs Chidi Felicia Nwafor, ‘m’, aged 80 years all natives of Umunya in Oyi LGA of Anambra State. He said the two suspects allegedly confined three children, two boys and a girl inside different rooms at NO.13 Akunwanta Mbamalu Street, Federal Housing Estate, Onitsha, and subjected them to physical and emotional torture without food and inflicted several wounds on their bodies, leaving them unconscious and at the point of death. Victims who badly battered He said the victims who were badly battered with lacerations all over their body – one with a broken arm, were found in the pool of their blood, rescued and rushed to the hospital for medical attention. According to Mohammed, police preliminary investigations revealed that the three children were allegedly sold to the suspects by a notorious child trafficking kingpin namely Sabina Izoura who has been on the police wanted list for child trafficking, child stealing and forgery. He said that police investigation also revealed that the suspect Sabina Izuora was involved in unlawful adoptions, using forged police reports, forged authorisation letters from the Ministry of Women’s Affairs and sworn court affidavits, to sell children stolen from all parts of the country to her waiting customers, both within and outside Nigeria; including a recent attempt to smuggle out two children (a boy and a girl) allegedly stolen from Niger State since 2018. Rejoice Raymond speaking to a journalist said that she adopted the three children at the cost of N3.5 million with every document from the ministry. She said that she adopted children as her children and has been treating them as her biological children. On why the bruises on the children’s bodies, she said she was not aware of such bruises until a day before her arrest. According to her, the police should rather investigate the ministry of women and children affairs and not her because her transaction were certified by documents. “Let us meet in the court. I adopted the children legally with the necessary documents. The police should rather investigate the ministry of women and children affairs and find out what is happening there and not me,” he said.