Suleiman Muhammad, the younger brother of Abubakar Muhammad, a Nigerian Air Force (NAF) officer who was killed in an ambush on February 15, 2021, has spoken on his decision to marry the deceased’s fiancée, Hajara Ahmad. Daily Trust reports that the late NAF officer died along the Birnin Gwari road in Kaduna State, three weeks to his wedding. The wedding, which held in Kaduna on Saturday, had the consent of both the bride and groom’s family. It has attracted a lot of attention as some people wondered how he could marry his elder brother’s finance one month after his death. But in a conversation with our correspondent, Suleiman said he fell in love with his new bride and they got along as if they had known each other for many years. According to him, “After my elder brother’s death, both families were devastated especially because Abubakar and Hajara where to get married in three weeks. So, our families, with the wise counsel of my mother, decided to hook us up. “I am someone who does whatever my mother says as long as it does not go against Allah, so when she approached me with this idea, I agreed and hoped Hajara too will agree. She agreed and today everything is history as we have been joined as man and wife. I love her like I have known her for years,” he said. Suleiman noted that though he has a girlfriend, who is presently in secondary school, his marriage is an act of destiny. “I never thought of getting married at this time because my girl is still in secondary school and I do not think she will be ready for marriage in the next five years.” Azumi Muhammad, Abubakar’s mother, described the deceased as kind-hearted, recalling their last moment in January. “Abu joined the NAF in 2017 after which he was posted to Port Harcourt where he spent two months. He came back to Kaduna and underwent a five-month course at the NAF base, after his training, he was posted to Enugu for another six months. “After that, he was transferred to Osun state. He spent only one month in Osun before he commenced a special forces training in Bauchi state. He spent two months in Bauchi, moved to Katsina state for one month before he was moved to Birnin Gwari.” She called on the Federal Government to tackle the current spate of insecurity so that young men like her son will not continue to pay the supreme price.