The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) in Benue State will begin three days of fast and prayers on Tuesday to seek divine intervention into insecurity in the state. State CAN chairman, Rev. Akpen Leva, said at a news conference in Makurdi on Monday, that the situation would have worsened if not the relentless prayers of Christians across the state. “I want to call on the Benue Christians to intensify prayers. This is the time to prayer ceaselessly and seek divine intervention. God has never disappointed us in any of our prayers. “We have resolved as a body to declare three days of fasting and prayer. The fasting and prayer session will commence on Tuesday. The grand finale of the programme will hold on Thursday, March 25, 2021,” he said. Leva who condemned the armed attack on Governor Samuel Ortom on Saturday worried that the country was fast becoming a lawless state. The CAN chairman added, “if a governor of a state would be attacked for no genuine reason, it then means that Nigeria is fast becoming a lawless state.” In a similar development, the youth arm of the three Socio-cultural organisations of Benue people protested over the attacks on the governor’s convoy as they marched through major roads in the state. One of the youth leaders, Timothy Hembaor, said the attackers have demonstrated a futile attempt to take over the Benue land, and urged the federal government to do everything in order to bring the perpetrators of the act to justice. Meanwhile, Governor Ortom shortly after the State Security Council meeting on Monday appealed to residents of the state for calm as he noted that the federal government has taken the right steps to investigate the attempt to assassinate him by gunmen. “I want to thank everyone for the solidarity shown me. I urge people of the state to continue to be law abiding. I appreciate Mr. President for the directive given to security agencies to fish out the perpetrators. I hope the security agents arrest them and prosecute them. Let us all support the security agencies to carry out their mandate in the state,” Ortom said.