Patriots for the Advancement of Peace and Social Development (PAPSD) has petitioned the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to investigate the use of money from N37.4 billion in promissory notes refunded to Zamfara state for rehabilitation of federal roads. In a petition to the Chairman of the Commission and signed by the PAPSD Executive Director Abdulahi Sani Shinkafi the group stated that in spite of several petitions and the conclusion of investigations by the Sokoto office of the Commission, the former Chairman of the Commission Ibrahim Magu had refused to arraign the suspects even when a prima facie case was established against them. “I hereby wish to forward a petition to the Commission for a thorough investigation and possible prosecution of the case of the fraudulent and criminal diversion of the N37,400,263,781 being the promissory notes which were issued by the Federal Government through the Debt Management Office. According to the petitions, one note was issued on December 28 for N14.9 billion to mature December 2020, and another for N22.4 billion to mature April 2022. The petition alleges the promissory notes were discounted to United Bank for Africa by former Governor Abdulazeez Yari before the maturity date without the approval of the state executive council or resolution of the state assembly. “In his desperate bid to cash out the N37.400,263,781 that has not matured, he terminated the deal by signing up undisclosed discounted rate.” In addition to the former governor, the petition names seven other individuals to be investigated for their “active roles in misappropriation of the promissory notes belonging to the good people of Zamfara”. “The question for determination is why the hurry to cash out the money before the maturity dates? Former Governor Yari should explain what he did with the money he collected after making the state loose billions of naira as discount,” Shinkafi said in the petition. “Why the DG and staff of the Nigerian Governors Forum Should collect the Promissory Notes on behalf of the Zamafara State government having not being staff of the state government. We hereby urge the Commission to invite the above-mentioned persons for interrogation, investigation and prosecution.”