Nigerians should condemn the recent move of the River’s State governor regarding the appointment of the new Chief Judge for the state. Justice, fairness and equity are one of the basic factors which are expected to be imbibed by all public officers. In fact it is expected to be the hallmark and foundation upon which our mode of engagement should be built on in our relationship with one another in the larger society. It is one which must be held in high esteem, to be exemplified by high-ranking members of our society, especially elected individuals. These features have been found missing in the recent move by the Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike in his recent appointment of the new Chief Judge of the state. As the number one citizen of the state and also as the custodian of the laws of the state, he is expected to uphold the laws and tenets of the state and in doing so he must set aside sentiment or favouritism and ensure that while merit is encouraged, justice, fairness and equity are also imbibed. The decision of the Rivers State governor to overlook the hierarchical order of the state’s judicial structure, whereby he jumped two candidates who were lawfully and rightfully due to be considered for the office of the Chief Justice for the 5th ranked person, Justice Amadi Simeon Chibuzor on the line, is a gross violation of the laws that guide the system. The decision of the governor to carry out such action is a reckless and blatant disregard of the existing structure, one which must not be found amongst people who have been vested with power by the people. This move clearly sends the wrong message to the larger society. The judiciary is a sacred institution which is not just a custodian of the people’s law but also its interpreter; for such contempt to have been done at the very corridor upon which our laws are held undermines the very values and essence which bind us as a federating unit. This is an injustice which has been done by the governor, one which must be corrected by all means else we set a bad precedence. For history to treat us right, we must ensure that we write the present well and this involves doing the right thing irrespective of the situation involved.  Comrade Ifeanyi Tarelayefa, Niger Delta Conscience Alliance Forum