Mai Mala Buni, chairman of the national caretaker committee of the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has said the ruling party’s ambition is to remain in power for 32 years. Speaking at the National Secretariat of the Party in Abuja on Tuesday, Buni, who is also the Governor of Yobe State, said the party will improve lives if given the opportunity to be in charge for eight terms. He made this known during the inauguration of the Strategy Committee of the Party under the chairmanship of Governor Muhammad Badaru of Jigawa State. “The constitution of the strategy and contact committee therefore, is to consolidate the achievements we are making in building a strong party with a solid structure that would accomplish APC to stand the test of time.” “Our vision is to provide a wheel that will drive the party to go beyond sixth, seventh and even eighth term of office to effectively implement the party manifesto, improve the lives of Nigerians and, to remain Nigeria’s leading political party. “This committee is therefore very key to our process of transition towards successful congresses and national convention and, to establish a very solid, reputable and reliable future for the party,” he said. Buni said the party’s efforts at wooing new members to the party have been successful. “On the other hand, our efforts in wooing members of other political parties into APC has recorded remarkable and unprecedented successes,” he said. “Another major milestone we have recorded as a party is the membership registration and revalidation exercise which has given every member of our party a true sense of belonging. “The membership registration would provide us with the numerical strength of the party and to serve as a guide towards planning.” On his part, Badaru said the caretaker committee is committed to delivering the ruling party’s covention in June. “We will support them and do whatever it takes to make sure we deliver by June,” he said. Badaru said the APC has registered 36 million members in the ongoing registration and revalidation exercise slated to end on March 31.