A panel of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday said merit, not zoning should determine the party’s presidential candidate, come 2023. The committee, chaired by Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State, was constituted to review the performance of the party in the 2019 general elections. Submitting the report of his committee to the PDP National Working Committee (NWC), Mohammed said every part of the country should be given the opportunity to choose the best candidate. “In line with certain unwritten conventions of the nation’s history, many people think that, for fairness and equity, the North East and South East geo-political zones that have had the shortest stints at the presidency should be given special consideration in choosing the presidential flag bearer of the party for the 2023 elections. “While we admit that this is a strong argument, we should not lose sight of the fact that Nigeria is endowed with many capable and very experienced leaders in every part of the country. Moreover, the exigencies of the moment demand that nothing should be compromised in choosing the leader with the attributes to disentangle the country from the present quagmire. “Therefore, we think that every Nigerian, from every part of the country, should be given the opportunity to choose the best candidate through a credible primary election, as a way of institutionalising a merit-based leadership recruitment process, for the country,” the panel stated. The panel also suggested that the party should set aside a certain percentage of elective and appointive offices for the youth and women. “The #EndSARS movement, a few months back, was the testimony we need that a new generation of young, bold, ambitious and detribalised Nigerians has taken centre-stage and that their legitimate clamour for inclusion and good governance can only be ignored to the peril of the party and indeed Nigeria. “In line with above, the party must strongly resolve to promote internal democracy, discourage ‘godfatherism and ensure that the will of the people prevails, in the choice of candidates to run for electoral positions. “That, in our view, is the pedestal upon which electoral success can be seamlessly sustained,” it added. Receiving the panel’s report, National Chairman of PDP Prince Uche Secondus said the NWC will study and analyse the report meticulously and come up with a position that will be beneficial to the party. “The PDP is leaving no stone unturned to ensure it regains federal power and this report is going to be the take-off point and keystone to our subsequent actions ahead of 2023,” he said. 