Continued from last week The Egyptians are a peculiar people and this one can see on their streets. Let me list the attributes I saw. ONWARD TO SHARJAH Well, the above are some of what I noticed about Cairo, Egypt in one and a half nights as we continued on the onward journey to Sharjah the next day at 5am, arriving at around 12pm the next day. I had started this journey to the UAE almost 48 hours before. Sharjah, the closest poorer brother to Dubai was also pulling her weight. The airport was neat and modern. What Sharjah lacked in size, gumption, traffic and money, it made up for in being organized. It took about 2 hours to sort out all passengers and take their samples for the covid test which was free for all. By the next day, we had information that the UAE had put her foot down that no airline should lift any passenger from Nigeria into any of its airports.  Getting into the UAE had become as hard as the camel getting through the eye of a needle. I recall that I had written in the past how a place like the UAE provided Nigerians with what is becoming an even rarer opportunity to see the modern world. With the way we are going, God forbid that we shall soon be totally shut in and asked to sort ourselves out. Our attitude as a people is also terrible. On my way in, I found myself yoked with the usual breed who don’t understand that they are ambassadors of this country; a few young, scrawny street girls from SouthWest Nigeria whom I was told were going to Dubai for prostitution on one hand, and a bunch of young traders from the SouthEast, some of whom did not care about their appearance. Imagine going into someone’s glistening country looking like a proper bum! Rough dreadlock, flipflops (or what we call bathroom slippers), a bare singlet and whatnot. When did Nigerians develop this temerity? Our fathers bought and borrowed suits just to go to the airport in their days. That is reverence for the technological achievement of others, and simple respect for the world. Nigerians – especially our youth demographic – no longer think it matters to respect other nations, and so they get less and less respect. We now live in the age of freedom for freedom sake.  I found it tough to relate with these Nigerians and even avoided them as much as possible. They were mostly hopeless cases. I however sent a text to Mrs Abike Dabiri-Erewa on the matter, that perhaps it may make some sense to start some sort of orientation for all travellers going out of Nigeria, and even sanction some who may not represent us well. On my way back, one Nigerian guy had to be deboarded. He was close to tears because someone from Nigeria was meant to have sent him his ‘negative’ covid test. How can some guy in Nigeria be the one sending you the result of a test you should have taken in the UAE? Forgery. We live in an age where most Nigerians – especially the young ones – see nothing wrong with forgery. Almost every Nigerian now walk around with some forgery or the other; either their age or name or whatever. Nigerians have established a business venture based on falsifying covid tests. How we have chosen never to walk the straight and narrow, obey the rules, respect ourselves and others, have some genuine love for our country, and have insight into what is going on with us, is a wonder indeed. We think we are smart but are among the dumbest on earth, so easy to see through in all our shenanigans, fakery, frauds, schemes, scams, and hide-and-seek games.  How long the world will wait for us is anyone’s guess.