A chieftain of the APC has called on the federal government to use the 2013 Terrorism Prevention Act to stop Zamfara governor Bello Matawalle from continuing with “peace dialogue with bandits who have been unleashing terror on innocent citizens”. Sahabi Sami, a former adviser to Kebbi state government, called on the Office of the National Security Adviser, DSS, military and police to bring in all promoters of dialogue with bandits for questioning, saying their activities run counter to the Terrorism Prevention Act. Matawalle should be made to mention the “individuals and groups” he alleged to be sabotaging the success of his so-called peace dialogue, said Sami. “The Zamfara state Governor is not only promoting dialogue with lawless individuals in the state but also persuading his colleagues in other Northwest and Northcentral states to adopt the policy of dialogue with hoodlums,” said Sami. “Most of these governors especially, Governor Nasiru El’Rufai of Kaduna state, have made public their clear stands of no dialoguing with hoodlums. “And one is left to wonder if the increased attacks experienced by Kaduna state is aimed at forcing the state government to dialogue with the hoodlums.” Mass abduction of students started with the Chibok Girls in Borno and Dapchi Girls in Yobe, two states seriously affected by Boko Haram insurgency. In the last few months, students have been abducted in Katsina, Zamfara and Niger. Kaduna has seen the worst of recent kidnappings, with students taken from their schools in Rama, Ikara and Afaka. Sami condemned the comparison between peace dialogue with bandits and amnesty to Niger Delta militants. “The militants in the Niger-Delta had a cause, leadership and was open to reasonable dialogue. No one can feign ignorance of the environmental destruction and degradation suffered by the people of the Niger-Delta, their water bodies have been contaminated, even their soil can barely support farming, including frequent acid rainfall,” said Sami. He’s also called for the international community to deny travel access to Matawalle from leaving Nigeria into any other country. “Matawalle be put on notice that processes against him are on course at the International Criminal Court over the activities of the armed hoodlums since he has decided to be their sympathiser,” said Sami. “That Federal Government must act now to prevent the continued undermining of education in Zamfara state by the Governor because the consequences of this action is grave and would affect the entire nation.” (NAN)