Non-academic staff of educational and associated institutions in Niger took to the streets of Minna to protest government policies that have allow teachers to retire at 65 or work 40 years in service. Members of The Non-Academic Staff Union say the state’s policies are discriminatory and favour only academic staff. They mention hardship posting and rural posting allowances as incentives teachers get” Members carried placards with various inscriptions. One of them: ‘Non-teaching staff are vital components that graduate students”. Another read, “What is good for the teachers is also good for the non-teaching staff”, and another declared, “Is it a crime to be a non-teaching staff?”. One said, “Discriminatory tendencies will destroy the school system’ among others.” The protesters marched from the Minna City Gate to the State House of Assembly and later moved to the Head of Service’s office to press their demands. Speaking during the protest, chairman of NASU at Niger State Univeral Basic Education Board, Muhammed Gimba, said, “We believe that the present policy statement which was made in favour of teachers and the federal executive council approval are genuine acts of an employer aimed at motivating an employee towards increased productivity with a view to providing quality education to our children as envisaged in the constitution. “Our problem with the approval was the discrimination against the non- teaching professionals and support staff in education sub-sector. Moreover, it is lacking in fairness equity, good conscience and natural justice for the reason that teachers are not only workers I the basic and foundation sub-sector of the education sector. Teaches work with quite a diverse range of non-teaching professionals and support personnel. Gimba noted that even though they conceded that teaching is central to schools, it is also obvious that a positive congenial, safe and healthy working environment conducive for teaching and learning is also important which teachers alone cannot provide and guarantee. He added that attention of the president and minister of education have been drawn to the discriminatory aspect of the police and urged other stakeholders in the education sector to take note. Addressing the protesters, Husseini Yabagi, lawmaker representing Gbako Constituency in the state assembly, pledged the house would look into their demands.