Lagos assembly has approved a request by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to buy 355 vehicles for ministries, departments and agencies at a cost of N4.4 billion in the state’s 2021 budget. The request was put to a voice vote on the floor of the house on Thursday after the state head of service and ministry of budget and economic planning defended the budget before the hosue committee of economic planning and budget. Member representing Eti Osa II, Gbolahan Yishawu, presenting a report into the state executive’s defence of the request, said the state government actually needed about 1,006 for its officials but the Governor approved only 355 due to shortage of fund. The committee therefore advised the state government to include purchase of vehicles for government officials in subsequent budgets rather than requesting for their purchase from special expenditure votes. Meanwhile, outstanding teachers in Lagos State-owned schools would be honoured with cars and other consolation prizes at the Annual Education Merit Awards, an initiative of the state government aimed at rewarding, motivating and appreciating the efforts of the teachers across the State. The grand finale of the annual education merit award, scheduled to hold on March 30 is designed to encourage upcoming generation to take pride in the teaching profession. Commissioner for Education, Folasade Adefisayo who addressed newsmen ahead of the event said the 13 teachers to be honoured were among 23 semi-finalists selected from over 3,000 applications who applied for the State’s Merit Award selection process captured under the State’s Education Transformation Plan 2020. Mrs. Adefisayo explained that the recipients have been selected from Primary, Junior Secondary and Senior Secondary Schools as well as Technical Colleges in the State, adding that the selection of finalists have been made through stringent evaluation criteria. She revealed that Governor Sanwo-Olu had earlier presented a three-bedroom apartment to the best teacher and best principal for 2019, thereby encouraging the best hands to embrace the teaching profession as teachers are nurturers of a nation’s treasure.