Hauwa Abbas is a visionary with strong standing built on over 14 years of experience in supporting and advocating for the improvement of society via the engagement of governments, stakeholders and influential opinion leaders. She is an award-winning humanitarian with an impeccable track record for marrying a global perspective with local experience and implementing high-impact interventions to reduce maternal and newborn mortality in northern Nigeria. She is also a certified coach with the International Coaching Federation, a Rotarian, an SDG advocate and the Founder of Silver Lining for the Needy Initiative, a non-profit organization. The Jigawa State indigene is multilingual as her dad is Hausa from Jigawa and her mum, Igbo from Anambra state. She speaks to Tambari on where religious and cultural tolerance is important for a thriving society. Educational background My background is in International Relations and Politics. Over the years, I took an interest in performance coaching and completed my coaching diploma in 2015 through a distance learning program with The Coaching Academy, UK, and have various certifications ranging from mental health, child abuse, nutrition, etc. In 2020, I was awarded my Associate Certified Coach (ACC) by the International Coaching Federation. Career background I come from a diverse background and have been engaged in the development sector for over 11 years. I am a Universal Health Coverage Advocate, renowned humanitarian, trainer and Certified Coach. I am widely recognized and respected for my immense contributions to the improvement of reproductive, maternal, newborn, child and adolescent health (RMNCAH) in Nigeria. Growing up days Growing up was interesting. I experienced different cultures, traditions but remained grounded by my mother who raised me along with support from close family members. My family has a mix of tribes, cultures and religions so I grew up learning and appreciating differences. Life lessons You are not everyone’s cup of tea. Focus on your goals and aspiration, give your best in everything, understanding that the direction of the wind can change at any moment. My aspirations growing up When I was a teenager, I wanted to study law, be a judge to make an impact by helping people get justice. When I finished secondary school, I spend a few weeks doing work experience in a court; I shadowed legal practitioners and thoroughly enjoyed it. I soon realized that I enjoyed moving around and decided law was not for me and I could achieve impact and justice in many other professions. Fond childhood memories I miss The greatest childhood memory I miss is having no responsibilities. Riding my bike with friends on weekends was always fun. Challenges Challenges come, according to the season, the greatest challenge has been learning to forgive myself, self-compassion and learning to let go of what is out of my control and move forward. Passion for humanitarianism A global voice with a strong national presence in Northern Nigeria, I founded Silver Lining for the Needy Initiative (SLNI), an NGO, in 2009, to promote the spread of humanitarian aid amongst the impoverished through its broad spectrum of projects and activities. In my capacity as the founder/president of SLNI, my teams and I, have spent the last 11 years educating women in rural communities on how to safeguard their health and that of their families from preventable life-threatening diseases. I have led SLNI to provide business support, eye check-ups and corrective glasses to elderly widows and widowers in rural areas and also provided subsidies for school tuition and boarding fees as well as annual Summer School activities for the kids in orphanages homes. We have supported the government to renovate schools and health facilities. SLNI is in partnership with several civil society groups and MDAs. SLNI has been recognized by the Nigerian government for its immeasurable contribution to the reduction of child and maternal mortality in the country. The motivation behind my passion for advocacy My passion for advocacy started off at a young age, I have always had a voice and never been afraid to use it. My motivation and drive are, I always knew I was born to make a difference. Growing up strong and resilient also prepared me for my role. I am passionate about the people and causes I support, I advocate in order to create positive and lasting change. When the results are achieved, it is always a rewarding feeling. Fashion accessories I always have on As long as I  always have clothes on and something on my feet, anything else, I can do without. My philosophy about life Be the change you wish to see in the world. We live in a world where everyone has a complaint or another. For me, I believe in being part of the solution, even if it is only one solution. If more people aligned themselves to a cause that they can support consistently, more impact will be made globally. I do not believe in complaining without a solution, worst, I do not believe in sitting on the fence and staying mute on an issue. Best travel destination Hong Kong has been one of my best travel experiences; I enjoy visiting places with a unique mixture of modern and tradition. Great food, amazing markets to pick up timeless pieces. I always look forward to travelling to new places. My best form of relaxation Despite my busy schedule, I make time to relax and reboot. Depending on my mood, I enjoy watching movies, cooking, painting, spa sessions and spending time with loved ones. Last good book I read The last book I read was Carlo Ancelotti, Quiet Leadership. The book was gifted to me and other members of the International Coaching Federation (Nigeria Chapter) who qualified as an Associate Certified Coach (ACC). When I first saw the title, I wondered, which one is quite a leadership? Reading the book had a lot of insights not only into different types of leaders but also the different types of followers. It is a book I recommend for senior leaders. The impact was learning that certain environments do not have the capacity to value your style of leadership, go where you are needed and valued. Best food Some days, all I want to eat is pasta, some days miyan kuka other days ofe nsala (white soup). My definition of style My style is simple and comfortable. I love the glam, however, for me, it takes effort when the need arises. An effort is great, but my lifestyle and profession do not require such effort daily. My Favourite sport, colour and weather My favourite sport is swimming. It works on the entire body. Favourite colour, black. You can never go wrong in black, it is bold and comfortable and my favourite weather, warm and dry. Heat and rain disrupt plans. Favourite day of the week Any day I can unwind, it is usually a Friday or Sunday. Keeping fit I found the best and most enjoyable way for me to keep fit is dancing. Before the pandemic I used to attend dance class three times a week, now I join online classes, although I am not as committed as I was with the gym classes. It’s definitely something I need to work on. Role models There are a few key qualities a role model should have: ability to inspire, demonstrate confidence, demonstrate commitment, demonstrate integrity and have the passion to serve others. To mention a few, Amina Mohammed, Michelle Obama, my mother and every parent who remains committed to raising their child. What I would tell a younger me I would tell her to find at least one mentor, if possible more. It is really important that you identify people older and more experienced than yourself that you can confide in, not only to talk through the good things but also the bad. A mentor may tell you what you do not want to hear, but with the right mindset and relationship, you will accept it is the best for you. Mentorship is vital both in a formal and informal setting. Keep people close who tell you the truth in private, but fight for you in public. To expand, what I am telling my older self now is to practice self-care. Take care of your mental and physical health always. Hauwa, give the best of yourself instead of the rest of you. Mum’s advice that has stuck with me to date Hauwa, not everyone is you. It seems so obvious, but so many of us have high expectations based on what we do or are ready to do for others. Expectations can lead to disappointments.