The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has described as a direct confrontation to generality of Nigerians the bragging by All Progressive Congress (APC) to remain “in its misrule for the next 26 years.” The National chairman of the APC Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, Gov. Mai Mala Buni had said on Tuesday that his party will remain in power for the next 26 years. Reacting to his claim, the spokesman of the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, said Nigerians had already reached a national consensus to kick them out of office, come 2023. “The PDP also describes APC’s claim of registering 36 million Nigerians in their failed fictitious registration exercise as another political hoax and empty claim, which cannot sway Nigerians in any way. “The PDP is aware that the APC National Caretaker Committee Chairman, Governor Mai Mala Buni made such a garrulous statement in the belief that APC’s intimidation of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the judiciary and security agencies as well as deployment of thugs from neighboring countries, will help them to subvert the will of Nigerians in future elections. “In Buni’s whims and thoughtlessness, Nigerians should make themselves ready for another 26 years of anguish, pains, hunger and starvation, insecurity and limitless suffering. This is the height of recklessness, insensitivity and affront to the sensibilities of Nigerians. “The PDP counsels the fizzling APC to end its pipe dreams and arrogant boasting and wake up to the reality that its tenure in office as well as its life as a political party will meet an inevitable end in 2023. “Governor Buni and his co-travelers in the illegal APC National Caretaker Committee must note that Nigeria is not their personal estate or the vassal of any group of power mongers. “The APC ought to know that Nigerians have never been and will never be suppressed or conquered by any political interest. In fact, Nigerians are now, more than ever before, ready, willing and prepared to resists the APC in its plots to use manipulations to perpetuate itself in power. “It is incontrovertible that if our nation goes into a midterm election, the APC will not get up to 20 percent of the votes cast. They should therefore stop addressing Nigerians like a conquered people with no voice, will and aspirations. “The party asserts that Nigerians are already set to deal the APC a death blow at the polls in 2023, as they have since reached a definite conclusion that there is no way our nation can survive if the APC is allowed to remain in power beyond 2023. “The PDP therefore counsels the APC to know that its Contact and Strategy Committee is of no moment as Nigerians have suffered under its rule and cannot afford to allow it to be in power a day beyond May 29, 2023”