The emir of Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero, has called on Nigerians to accept the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine against COVID-19. He made the call at his palace shortly after a special prayer session held to commemorate his first anniversary on the throne. Alhaji Aminu Bayero also said the emirate is looking at the possibility of working with other government agencies to establish an incubation centre that will train Kano youths on modern technology and business strategies. When established, the centre according to the emir, will be known as a Technology and Business Hub Incubation Centre, aimed at helping youths use new technologies to improve their lives to the better. “Our hope is to select few youths and help in training them to master the use these modern strategies and to enable them advance their frontiers especially in business and education. “The centre will help them improve their lives in education, business and technology. And, if it succeeds, we will order its expansion in the entire country,” he said. The emir explained that the initiative became necessary as a result of the state of joblessness and its repercussion on national security. “I know governments at different levels have come up with different interventions to help our youths, but I am appealing to them to do more especially in the area of agriculture and entrepreneurship in order to help our youths to be self-reliant,” the emir added. Alhaji Aminu Bayero who assumed office on March 10, 2020, a day after the State Government dethroned former emir Muhammadu Sanusi II, said the emirate has been able to mend its relationship with government in the last one year. He explained that, “This last one year has been quite challenging due to challenges of insecurity, health [due to COVID-19 pandemic], economic challenge as well as other social and educational challenges globally. “We appreciate all the love we receive from people. I am grateful to Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje for all his support. Over the last one year, we have been working with various government agencies, especially security agencies, the State House of Assembly, the Judiciary and fellow emirs of Bichi, Rano, Gaya and Karaye. “I thank all our Ulamas for all their prayers and businessmen. Let me also use this opportunity to appeal to them to pity people not to hike prices of goods as the holy month of Ramadan is fast approaching.” He said the emirate has decided that there won’t be any celebration except for the special prayer sessions. Daily Trust, however, reports that the emir is commemorating his first anniversary without receiving staff of office from Governor Ganduje to what it described as the delay caused by COVID-19 pandemic.