The Senate, yesterday, stepped down the consideration of a bill seeking to establish the Armed Forces Service Commission after a stormy session that forced the lawmakers into a closed door. The bill, sponsored by Senate Minority Leader, Enyinnaya Abaribe, aims at ensuring that the composition and appointment of service chiefs of the armed forces reflect federal character in a manner prescribed in Section 217 (3) of the 1999 Constitution. Senators were sharply divided during a debate on the general principle of the bill. Lawmakers, who backed the bill, argued that it stood on a very strong constitutional ground and also invited the Senate to exercise its constitutional rights. Those who opposed it said the establishment of the commission would politicise the armed forces, which they argued, was dangerous for the peace and unity of the country. After the debate, the bill was put to a voice vote by Senate President Ahmad Lawan. “The nays have it,” Lawan proclaimed and applied the gavel. Quickly, Abaribe stood up and cited Order 73 of the Senate Rule, which says that any senator can challenge the ruling of the presiding officer. He, therefore, called for voting on the bill. But Lawan interjected and said the ruling was not his personal opinion. He said, “It is not my opinion that the nays had it. I didn’t rule inappropriately.” Abaribe, however, insisted that it was his right to call for voting on the bill, saying, “I’m only saying, give me my right and my right is that all our members should get up and vote.” At this point, Senator James Manager (PDP, Delta) advised the Senate president to allow voting to take place. After about seven minutes in limbo, the Senate moved into a closed-door session, which started for 20 minutes. The bill was stepped down after the Red Chamber emerged from a closed session. Speaking after the executive session, Senate President Lawan said the Red Chamber had appealed to Abaribe to withdraw Order 73 he invoked. Abaribe agreed to step down the consideration of the bill. 