Amina Gwani Danzarga, the bride-to-be who went into hiding 48 hours to her wedding, has opened up on why she took the action. Her family members had earlier told Daily Trust that Amina was kidnapped on her way back from Dorayi quarters where she went to drop her exams card. Amina has confessed committing the act, explaining that she took such a decision because she did not like her fiancé. “I didn’t love the guy, that was why I took that decision… Although I was the one who presented him to my parents,” she said. Amina added that, as she respected her parents very much, she could not inform them of her sudden change of mind about her suitor. She, however, said she now loved her husband-to-be more than before and she was ready to live with him peacefully for the rest of her life. Act of the devil She also apologized to her parents and her husband-to-be, noting that it was an act of the devil. Amina’s uncle, Gwani Rayyanuna, expressed shock over the turn of events. “I am still in shock at what the girl committed. She was the one who introduced him to us and I made an investigation about the guy and, as parents, we made all the necessary plans for the wedding. “She did not inform us about her change of mind, only for us now to hear a different story from her,” he said. Asked what the next step would be, Gwani Rayyanuna said that the family would meet and make the decision. When she went missing, Amina’s uncle had expressed worry that apart from two text messages, the family did not receive any call from the girl or her abductors. “Hours after she was declared missing, we received two different text messages, the first one was a threat not to call the girl’s number again and the second one was sent to her younger brother requesting to put her in their prayers as the other lady who was allegedly kidnapped together had been killed. “We have not received any message again as her number is not going through. We are only praying to Allah Almighty to expose anyone that has a hand in this kidnapping,” he had said. But the police later announced that the bride-to-be actually staged the act. The Police Public Relations Officer in Kano state, DSP Abdullahi Haruna Kiyawa, told Daily Trust the lady went into hiding because she did not want the wedding to hold. When contacted, the husband-to-be, Umar Hassan, refused to comment on the issue, saying that he is yet to meet with her.