By Nana Yahaya
Consuming sugar in fruits is harmless; it is actually helpful, according to experts. They said eating berries could blunt the insulin spike from high glycemic foods such as white bread, because the fiber in fruit has a gelling effect in the stomach and small intestine that slow the release of sugars and certain phytonutrients in fruits that appear to block the absorption of sugar through the gut wall and into the bloodstream. Some studies also reveal that sugar in  berries is also suited for diabetes patients as berries contain bioactive substances that are essential for life. A nutritionist Najib Panda said  there was no specific definition for sugar in berries; rather, berries are fruits that contain sugar and other phytonutrients that have health benefits beyond nutritional benefits. He said: “Fruits  contain sugar because fruits contain polyphenols which can be associated with different organic acids and carbohydrates that is sugar, and it can be concluded basically that fruits contain sugar in them”. He said consuming  berries has health benefits because of the fiber gelling effect in the stomach and small intestine and it is important to include coloured fruits such as berries to our daily intake because of the harmless sugar and other phytonutrients with their antioxidants activity and anti-inflammatory activity. “The coloured pigments found in fruits and vegetables contain anthocyanin and are loaded with antioxidants. The anthocyanin and cancer activities from many fruits and vegetables have been demonstrated to inhibit the initiation, promotion and progression of several cancers as research indicated that anthocyanin can inhibit several signaling pathways involved in tumor growth and apoptosis,” he stated. “When talking of anthocyanins  and cardiovascular diseases,  anthocyanin-rich extract from fruits and vegetables could reduce the risk of atherosclerosis by stopping oxidation of low density lipoprotein that is, bad cholesterol formation, promoting macrophage reserve cholesterol transport RCT and also reducing stress on the blood vessels,” he  added. The nutritionist advised the public to shop for greenest berries, reddest strawberries, most scarlet tomatoes, the darkest green vegetables because the colors are anti-aging, anti-cancer and antioxidants.