The Chairman/CEO of Galaxy Sports Academy Makurdi, Austin Akpehe has called on the Nigeria Football Federation, NFF, to establish a football league for academies so that the budding talents that abound in the country would be discovered and nurtured to stardom. In this interview with Trust Sports, the former Stationary Stores, Asante Kokoto and Paris FC of France player spoke on the challenges of running a football academy and what he is doing to make Galaxy Sports Academy the centre of attention for foreign scouts. About a year ago, you floated Galaxy Sports Academy Makurdi. How has the journey been? Yes, I established Galaxy Sports Academy a year ago in Makurdi, Benue State, and I thank God for granting me the opportunity to give back especially to the people of Benue State. At the moment, we have a camp for our players at Aper Aku stadium. We also have a training field at Government College Makurdi. To the glory of God, we are making steady progress. What would you say are the major problems confronting the academy? The beginning of any human endeavour is usually difficult. We have basically two major challenges. One is having our own football field. Although my dream is for us to have our own camp with training pitches, for now we are using one of the pitches at Government College Makurdi. There is also the challenge of feeding the players twice a day. So it was not easy dealing with these needs. What would you say are the aims and objectives of Galaxy Academy? Our aim and objective is youth empowerment. We want to empower as many youths as possible. We want to impact on them good morals and the need for them to give back to society in future. It is our fervent belief that we would produce exceptional players who would go on to play for big clubs in Africa and the rest of the world. Therefore our slogan is ‘Galaxy Sports: Built to rebuild. Our strength is in our maker’. Without doubt, one of the objectives is to market your players to foreign clubs. Has there been a breakthrough in this regard? Yes, our most recent transfers are Chris Tavershima Shimbayev and Jospeh Atule Jnr who are currently playing in the Chinese league. If not for the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, we would have transferred more players to foreign clubs. In terms of vision and organisation, what would you say is the difference between Galaxy Academy and other football academies in Nigeria? Galaxy Sports Academy is not only about football. We never abandon our players. We work hand in hand with parents, guardians as well as sponsors. We also assist in teaching our boys how to have a secured financial future. We teach morals and support our players to also drive education alongside football. I had to forgo education to pursue a professional career. Luckily, I was able to catch up after my illustrious professional football career. How far have you gone in getting corporate sponsors for the academy? This is where we are presently. I believe in our esteemed Benue State stakeholders. I am appealing to corporate organisations in Benue State and Nigeria in general to trust me so that together we would explore this industry in the right way. There is so much to share in this venture. It is interesting to announce that the former Managing Director of NEXIM Bank, Chief Roberts Orya is already on board. Not long ago, he called on well meaning Nigerians, particularly Benue State indigenes to support this noble project. I was to meet His Excellency, Governor Samuel Ortom in Changsha China when he visited but an emergency situation made him leave abruptly so we couldn’t see. Before then, we had discussed briefly on the phone. As a public spirited individual and staunch supporter of youth development, I am confident His Excellency will soon become one of our major sponsors. It is now an open secret that on March 18, Galaxy Sports Academy will be formally launched in Makurdi. How are you preparing for the event? We are doing a lot to mobilise Benue indigenes for the launch of the academy. Not long ago, I was at the 9th Benue State House of Assembly to invite every single legislature to come out on that day and identify with the youths that I have brought together from all over the state. I have also invited the 23 Local Government Chairmen to seize this opportunity to be a part of this work. Nigerians from all walks of life will be coming to support us. Some have pledged support for us from the USA, Germany, France, Spain, Israel, China, Ghana, Cote’ d’Ivoire, etc. For now, it is our royal fathers that I am yet to reach. It will also interest you to know that our Patron, Roberts Orya has graciously released to us one of the most expensive halls in Benue Hotels for the occasion. We are confident of having a successful launch of the academy. To what extent are football stakeholders in the state identifying with the project? They’ve been most supportive. I want to use this opportunity to wish my big brother Barnabas Imenger a quick recovery. He was going to drive this for us. In his absence, the Hon. Commissioner of Youth and Sports Development Comrade Ojotu Ojema is leading us. We have the Benue State Sports Council under the leadership of Comrade Philiph Nongu, PFAN Benue chapter, Benue football coaches Association and Makurdi All Stars supporting us. We also have the blessing and support of former internationals, Dominic Iorfa, Moses Kpakor, Mike Idoko, John Zaki, Samson Siasia, Daniel Amokachie, Francisca Ordega and many others. In what ways do you think the NFF can support football academies in Nigeria? Good question, sir. So much to say on this topic, but let me summarise. The NFF should provide the necessary facilities for academies to thrive. Since most of the academies are affiliated to the NFF, they should be supported with the required incentives. Most importantly, the NFF should think about setting up a football league for the academies. They once tried to start a league for the NPFL feeder teams but it has taken forever. First of all, they should establish a league for our academies. In this way, the few NPFL teams that have academies can also participate. Let them also assist in upgrading the knowledge of academy coaches. At the moment, most academy coaches can’t get even the coaching badges in Nigeria.