The Zamfara State Government has asked the police, Department of State Services (DSS), Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) to monitor reports of media organisations on insecurity.\ At a press briefing on Thursday, The state’s information commissioner, Ibrahim Dosara, said the measure is in “cognisance of the ill effects of fake news, unguarded utterances by members of both conventional and the social media.” He said the state wanted action against “unprofessional conduct” in media reporting insecurity”. As a result of the high level of insecurity, Zamfara has made headlines across different news platforms in the country. “The state government realises that the print and electronic media activities, especially the social media handlers undermine the peace process of the state government,” Dosara said. “Consequent upon this, the state commissioner of information and security chiefs in the state have been directed to monitor the conduct of media practitioners in the state. “The Commissioner of Police, the DSS, the Civil defence and I, as commissioner, have been saddled with the responsibility of ensuring compliance to professionalism in media practices. “As well as cyber crimes and the violation of public peace, fundamental human rights and the rule of law.” On the state government’s peace process, the commissioner said it had removed the battle-line earlier drawn between bandits and members of vigilantè groups, and facilitated the surrender of arms by many criminals. According to him, the killings, maiming, wanton destruction of properties had also been brought to the barest minimum across the state. The commissioner stressed that the government would not allow sabotage of the peace process. Dosara, however, applauded journalists working in line with the ethics of the profession, “who give objective and balanced reports on all matters, especially security issues, and avoid arm-chair journalism and bias in their news reports”. The commissioner assured that the government and security agencies would respond quickly to inquiries from the media to issues as they arise, “so that the journalists are not unnecessarily delayed.” (NAN)