World Football governing body, FIFA, has imposed a fresh ban on it former President, Sepp Blatter. Blatter was sanctioned alongside Jerome Valcke, his Secretary General, who was also found guilty by its Independent Ethics Committee. Blatter and Valcke, who will not be involved in any football-related activity for six years and eight months, have also been fined CHF 1,000,000, according to FIFA’s press release. Both men were guilty of violating various FIFA ethics, including illegal bonus payments to top FIFA officials and changing employment contracts at their whim, according to the adjudicating chamber. Valcke was further accused of collecting legal fees for private matters from FIFA purse. “The adjudicatory chamber of the independent Ethics Committee has found Mr Joseph S. Blatter, former FIFA President, and Mr Jérôme Valcke, former FIFA Secretary General, guilty of various violations of the FIFA Code of Ethics (FCE). “The investigations into Messrs Blatter and Valcke covered various charges, in particular concerning bonus payments in relation to FIFA competitions that were paid to top FIFA management officials, various amendments and extensions of employment contracts, as well as reimbursement by FIFA of private legal costs in the case of Mr Valcke,” FIFA said. Activities of Blatter and Valcke bordered on disloyalty, conflict of interest, offering and collecting gifts, and abuse of office thereby warranting such heavy sanctions. “Consequently, Messrs Blatter and Valcke have both been sanctioned with bans from all football-related activity (administrative, sports or any other) at both national and international level for a period of six years and eight months. In addition, fines to the amount of CHF 1,000,000 have been imposed on both Messrs Blatter and Valcke.
Blatter, FIFA President from 1998 to 2015, is currently serving a six-year ban that expires in October while Valcke is serving a 10-year ban that expires October 2025. FIFA, however, added that the latest ban “will only come into force upon the expiry of the previous bans.”