Chairman of South-East Governors’ Forum and Governor of Ebonyi State, David Umahi, has expressed optimism that the All Progressives Congress (APC) will dislodge the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in this year’s governorship election in Anambra State if Dr. George Moghalu is fielded as APC candidate. The governor stated this at the weekend when Moghalu paid him a visit at his Uburu country home. “I commend him so much for the great work he is doing for Nigeria and our people. He is a very good material for the race and with him as our candidate we (APC) will take over Anambra in the November governorship poll,” Umahi said. In a related development, 24 groups supporting the aspiration of a former Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Prof Charles Soludo, for the election have organised a prayer summit for his victory. The support groups stormed the Prof. Dora Akunyili Women Development Centre, Awka, at the weekend and prayed for the divine grace of God upon Soludo. In his remarks, Soludo said, “I see God’s hands in this project and I have accepted to serve my people in Anambra State after serving the world and the nation.” A Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship aspirant for the election, Valentine Ozigbo, has said lack of unity in the party was responsible for the losses suffered in previous elections. He said he was committed to uniting the party to make it stronger and better positioned to win elections “handsomely”, expressing confidence that he would be the consensus candidate of the party in the June 26 primaries. Ozigbo spoke in Lagos during a town hall meeting with members of Anambra community in the state. “PDP may have lost governorship election in the past. But as you know there are three senatorial districts in Anambra State; APGA is not in any. That tells you PDP remains a powerful force. “Today what I’m going to do is unification. We want to bring people together so that we can together win elections,” he said. From Nabob Ogbonna (Abakaliki), Titus Eleweke (Awka) & Abdullateef Aliyu, (Lagos)