Leaders of the National Consultative Front (NCFront) on Tuesday inaugurated a 22-member political merger committee headed by a former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Ghali Umar Na’Abba, to “negotiate and facilitate an inclusive mega party movement for Nigerians.” The movement, which would be ready by June 2021, is to work out an alternative to the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The 22-member committee was charged by the leadership of NCFront with a clear mandate to be inclusive in negotiating and sealing the formation of a credible alternative ideology-driven mega political party movement for all citizens of conscience and ideological groups. The high powered political merger committee inaugurated at a virtual engagement, yesterday, also included 12 national chairpersons of political parties and nine major political movements and interest groups. Co-Chairman of NCFront Prof. Pat Utomi, who inaugurated the committee, reeled out other members including Na’Abba – Chairman; Chief Raph Okey Nwosu (ADC, National Chairman) – Vice-Chair; and Dr. Olu Agunloye (SDP, National Chairman) – Secretary. Others are Dr. Osagie Obayuwana (former national chairman, NCP); Arch. Ezekiel Nya Etok (former chairman, YDP); High Chief Peter Ameh (former chairman of IPAC and PPA), Dr Tanko Yunusa National Chairman, NCP). Also included are Senator Zainab A. Kure, Rt Hon Jumoke Akindele (former Speaker, Ondo State House of Assembly), Comrade Issa Aremu (Labour and LP leader), Chief Precious Elekima (National Chairman, PLIF), Senator Folashade Grace Bent and Dr Aisha Salihu Lemu (Women Leader), among others. The NCFront leaders also vowed to resist the attempt to conduct another national election without a new constitution. Daily Trust reports that the group had already set up another constitution drafting committee headed by Chief Olisa Agbakoba to draft another constitution for Nigeria. Utomi charged the Na’Abba committee to use the discretionary power to co-opt any other stakeholder, “who has an undisputed relevance and usefulness to the successful formation of the new mega political movement, slated for nationwide launching by the end June 2021.” Na’Abba, in his acceptance speech, assured that his committee will work vigorously and round the clock to ensure that the manifesto, constitution, nomenclature, logo, motto, slogan and interim leadership structures of the new mega political movement are “robustly discussed.” 