Some gunmen in Abia State reportedly got more than what they bargained for after a gun duel with soldiers on Wednesday morning. In the last one month, many security operatives have been shot dead in different across the southern part of the country. Based on the development, police checkpoints have been dismantled in many areas in the states where security operatives are under attack. On Wednesday, soldiers from 144 Battalion of the Nigerian Army in Abia, came under attack at Ariaria junction, along the Enugu–Port Harcourt expressway. After the gun battle, at least 16 gunmen, who are suspected to be members Eastern Security Network (ESN), were killed. Residents of the area told our correspondent that the gunmen, numbering about 30, engaged the soldiers at their checkpoint. The soldiers were said to have gathered intelligence before the gunmen struck. “The soldiers who were fully prepared positioned themselves in strategic places and wait for them. As soon as the gunmen arrived, they opened fire, but the soldiers responded,” a resident said. However, there are conflicting reports about the number of casualties; while some residents said 16 persons were killed, among them, a soldier, a top military source in Aba said only 11 gunmen were killed and there was no casualty on the side of the army. “No soldier was killed, but we killed 11 of the gunmen. I assure the public that there was no casualty on the side of the soldiers.” he said. The Abia State Government commended the soldiers for their gallantry, pledging its commitment to the protection of lives and properties. Commissioner for Information, Chief John Okiyi Kalu, who stated this, warned youths of the state not to put themselves in harm’s way by attacking security agents under any guise. “It is a good development; we welcome every necessary measure to protect the good people of Abia state. We call on our young men and women not to put themselves in harm’s way by attacking security agents under any guise. We also urge them not to allow themselves to be used by politicians for any reason to cause insecurity. Abia state government will do everything possible to protect law-abiding citizens without fear.”