Sometimes in 2017/2018, the ship of this state seems to have headed in a very wrong direction. History had it that we came together, an election came and we chose a democratically-elected government of the people, our people, and for the people. They say ‘who is Babajide Sanwo-Olu’? We said, ‘you will find out’. Those were the exact words of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), during the commissioning of a fly-over bridge in the Agege area of the state. He had described the incumbent governor as a performer, expressing delight that Ambode did not secure the APC ticket for the 2019 governorship election. But back in 2017, Tinubu praised Ambode to high heavens and described him as a governor who was doing his best.
Tinubu had said at the rate Ambode went, Lagos would soon compete at the international level. He had said, “Akinwunmi Ambode has reflected that clearly here today. I want to say thank you because experience is a great teacher and I am experienced. I am on the spot and I have watched things in Lagos since my tenure ended. I was worried hell when you (Ambode) took over, not about your credibility, character or capacity, but because however wise or smart a man is, if there are no resources to back the ideas, production would be zero, progress would be zero. When you (Ambode) took over, I know you inherited a burden of debt. The debt profile of Lagos was high, I was wondering how you will reengineer and face the challenges to make progress. “Today, I can see your report card, you have scored well, and you have shown prudency especially in the judicious use of resources of the State. You didn’t disappoint us. Ambode is silently achieving, meticulously planning, religiously executing and brilliantly giving results for Lagos State. “All over Lagos, we are seeing the results. At Oshodi, on our way down here, you can see what is happening there, that place is a construction site. It used to be a den of robbers but what is going on there now is developmental activities for the benefit of the entire country. “Ambode is very quiet, very peaceful, not a noise maker, but he is delivering on the job. This is a great opportunity for me to be very proud again. Therefore, if we can continue in this direction of infrastructural development in the manner Governor Ambode is moving, Lagos will soon match international states or country anywhere in the world.” What has changed between then and now? Will Tinubu praise or condemn Sanwo-Olu at the end of his tenure?