Delegation of entrepreneurs from Nigeria has met its counterparts in Morocco and signed an agreement that established the Nigeria/Morocco Business Council in Rabat, the capital of Morocco. The agreement, which was signed and adopted by the duo, is expected to explore and break new grounds for business opportunities in the two countries. Chairman of the Nigerian delegation, Yusuf Hamisu Abubakar, said the partnership would create a better economy and a closer relationship between Nigeria (largest economy in Africa) and Morocco (highest francophone investor after France). He said both countries have had long-standing cultural, religious and commercial links to leverage on, formalise and expand, so as to determine the modalities of harnessing business areas beneficial to the stakeholders. “The leaders of our two countries, President Muhammadu Buhari and his majesty King Mohammed IV, have led in making sure that the two countries work together and realise the potentials for the benefit of our people, our countries and Africa,” he said. He noted that, at the moment, Nigeria and Morocco have 21 bilateral agreement signed by their leaders in different areas of business interests that need private sector participation for better result. “We as business leaders, it’s our responsibility to make sure that we come to the realisation of those objectives because it’s through businesses that we can achieve their aspirations, and that is why we are forming the Nigeria/Morocco business council,” he added. He said the delegation from Nigeria is made up of very committed people with diverse business interests that will ensure deeper relationship and partnership between all investors. Abubakar also reminded the convention that both Nigeria and Morocco are signatories to African Continental Free Trade Zone (AfCFT) which the council is equally ready to turn into its full advantage. The Chairman of Rabat chamber of commerce, M Abbad Abdullah, said the Council came at the right time to support the high level of talks and agreements between leaders of the two countries. “Also, signing the convention had strengthened the cooperative mechanism between our two countries,” he said. By Hamisu Kabir Matazu, who is in Rabat