The Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr Bashir Jamoh, has said the 60 per cent of the agency’s directors are women. He has also revealed that the agency is in the process of deploying its floating dock. While playing host to female directors and assistant directors of the agency at a dinner in Lagos to commemorate International Women’s Day and marking his first year in office, Jamoh said that in the past, women got positions based on gender, but are now getting positions based on their competencies. “In today’s maritime world you have to be up to the task and have the capacity to deliver, otherwise you will be shown the way out. So I have no regret whatsoever, and can beat my chest to say that more than 60 per cent of my directors are women,” he said. He also cited women in significant positions like Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala of the World Trade Organisation, Amina Mohammed, the deputy secretary-general of the United Nations, Hadiza Bala-Usman of the Nigerian Ports Authority. To the female cadets of the NIMASA, the National Seafarers Development Programme (NSDP) at the event, he said, “To you, the young cadets, be steadfast, resolute and continue to remain focused.” The chairman of the Ship-owners Forum and special guest at the event, Mrs Margaret Orakwusi, lauded Jamoh for being the first in the maritime domain to recognise and celebrate women of the agency. Meanwhile, in a separate visit to the managing director of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Hadiza Bala-Usman, the NIMASA boss said the agency’s Modular Floating Dock would soon be deployed. “I am happy to announce that we have concluded an arrangement for the Modular Floating Dock to become operational. What we are waiting for now is the day to commission it,” Jamoh said. The NPA boss, in her remarks, noted that the organisation was going into agreement with the NIMASA to hand over its dockyard, jetty locations and warehouses, all within that area, to enable the modular floating dock to be installed. “The NPA will continue to provide the necessary support as it relates to the aspect of our shareholding within the Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) being guided by the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC).” When operational, the NIMASA floating dock, which arrived in Nigeria in 2018, is expected to help conserve foreign exchange, provide employment, among others.