Former England footballer Emile Heskey is joining up with entrepreneur Davison Simango to launch the Alkebulan Group. The group will be working to develop humanitarian projects that seek to transform Africa. It will do so through sourcing and brokering investment opportunities in different portfolios—energy, healthcare, mining, infrastructure, oil and gas, ICT, agriculture and banking. The group has access to N5 billion in funding. It will seek to invest in sectors that generate high long-term returns to help move the continent’s economy forward. Heskey is bringing to the deal his passion to leave a legacy. “It’s one of the first things we spoke about when setting up Alkebulan Group was giving back, what can we do to give back? Whether it be hospitals, whether it be education. Whatever it may be, where can we give back?” Heskey said in an interview. “That was one of the major things because that is something that aligns us both that we’re adamant about.” Simango says there’s no better time to invest in the continent. “Looking at job opportunities, over 60% of the population in Africa is under 30 and a lot of them don’t have employment or have skills,” he said. “I think the long-term impact that the group is going to bring is helping education and job opportunities. We can make it easy for them to do business, and in itself that is a contribution to the economy and growth of the country.” Alkebulon will also seek to foster gender equality as a human right. It believes societies that value women and men as equals are safer and healthier. “A woman brings stability and structure to a business, it’s in their nature. If we put women in the business world then they will flourish and it’s very important that they’re given equal opportunity. At the same time, gender equality prevents violence against women, and we want to be at the heart of nurturing gender equality in all that we do,” according to the group. Alkebulan Group are already in talks with major investors to kickstart its work, after a number of meetings with diplomatic figures in key parts of the continent. A second phase will involve funding when restrictions due to the coronavirus pandemic are lifted.  