The vice-presidential candidate on the platform of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2019 general elections, Mr Peter Obi, has stated that he has not anointed any aspirant. Obi, who spoke at the PDP Anambra State interactive meeting with state officials, local government officers, wards chairmen and secretaries on Wednesday, said that every aspirant must go for primary. He said: “If anybody comes to you and tells you that he has my blessing or he has paid me anything to support him or her, please ignore the person. “I have no special aspirant in my mind. My concern is for PDP primary to be free, fair and credible.” According to him, every aspirant must subject himself or herself to primary and whoever emerges shall be supported for the election. Obi also admonished the party officials to vote for a person with the capacity to win an election in the state, noting that not everybody has the capacity to win an election. He added: “Look for someone with the capacity to win an election. “Please use your brain to access all the aspirants before you cast your votes. “Think deep well and think about who can win an election and not somebody who will just give you money.” Obi added that he is into politics to work for the betterment of society and not for his personal gains. He stated, “God has blessed me and I have no reason to support any person because of what I will gain. “I don’t have any person that I am training in school now. All my children are grown up and are working.” Earlier in his address, the state chairman of PDP, Chief Ndubisi Nwobu, also assured that the party primaries would be free from manipulations. According to him, the time had gone when delegates’ names are changed few hours to a primary. He also disclosed that the party would be going on a massive membership drive and mobilisation. Nwobu said that the party will commence its mobilisation with registration, starting from 12 April 2021. The state chairman said that the mobilisation and registration would be monitored by the zonal chairmen and top party officials.