Aisha Yesufu, an activist, has alleged that President Muhammadu Buhari has brought down his government. In a video she posted on social media during the weekend, Yesufu said no one can bring down what is already down. She was responding to the comment of Garba Shehu, presidential spokesman, who said nobody can being down Buhari’s government. When he featured on a Channels Television programme on Friday, Shehu had said those calling for secession are charlatans who are trying to destroy Buhari’s government. But in her response, Yesufu taunted the presidential spokesman saying Nigerians are currently trying to lift the current administration. “Yesterday, Garba Shehu said nobody can bring down Buhari’s government and I absolutely agree with him because you can’t bring down something that is already down. The president himself is the one who brought down his government. That is why quite a number of people have been saying the person in that office is a clone. Really, you can’t truly bring down what is already down; it’s down already. “Being in government is not the fact that you are in office and you are doing something; it is the fact that you are unable to do anything. You are unable to give good governance; you are unable to give accountability; you are unable to give transparency; you throw your people into hardship and a lot of things are going wrong and that’s what it means to be down. “This government is already down. The only thing now is to get the government up so that the people can get the good government that they deserve. A government that can’t protect the people is already down… a government where people are paying taxes to terrorists and bandits is already down. A government where farmers cannot harvest their crops until they pay terrorists is down. A government under which children are afraid to go to school because they don’t want to be kidnapped is already down. A government where kidnapping has become the norm is a government that is already down. So nobody can bring such a government down.”  