The Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika may have sought approval for a N2 billion grant from the presidency and to site the Ogun airport project at Wasimi in Ewekoro Local Government Area of the state, it was learnt yesterday. The state governor, Dapo Abiodun and his predecessor, Ibikunle Amosun have disagreed over the airport project and its location. While Abiodun prefers an Agro-Allied Cargo airport, located at Ilishan-Remo, Ikenne Local Government Area, Amosun is pushing for a passenger airport at Wasimi. Findings by Daily Trust indicated that Sirika in 2018 made a request to President Muhammadu Buhari for the establishment of a passenger airport in Wasimi in May 2018. Recently, the Senate Committee Chairman on Aviation paid a visit to the state and decided to inspect both sites as the Governor and his predecessor frantically pushed for their preferred location and the airport type. The issue was first raised in March this year by the Committee on Aviation when the Director-General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Capt. Musa Nuhu was invited but he denied knowledge of the airport and claimed Presidential approval. A document dated May 7, 2018 and received by the President on May 10, 2018 from the then Ministry of Transport with reference number FMA/DSTP/402/S.86/1/196 and titled: ‘Request for Payment of the Sum of Two billion only Capital Support Grant for Construction of Ogun State Airport at Wasimi Abeokuta.’ Sirika signed the document then as Minister of State for Aviation, arguing that citing the airport in the state would enhance the facilitation of VIP movement, border patrol, Agro Pesticide Control, Medical Emergency Evacuation, among others. In addition, he said it would enhance economic development of the state and the nation given the strategic place of Ogun as next to the nation’s commercial capital. However, almost four years after the request was made, the project is still in limbo. It was however not clear whether the money was given to the then Ministry of Transport based on the request by Sirika who was then in the Ministry as Minister of State Transport in charge of Aviation. Director, Public Affairs of the Ministry of Aviation, Mr. James Odaudu did not respond to our correspondent’s enquiry as of the time of filing this report. He did not answer his call and did not also reply to the text message sent to him.