A two-time councillor representing Byazhin ward in Kubwa, Bwari Area Council in Abuja, Yunusa Isah Hamza, has vowed to reclaim the council’s chairmanship for his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC). Hamza who declared interest to contest for the council’s chairmanship under the APC at the party’s headquarters in Bwari also promised to uplift the lives of the people if nominated and consequently elected. He said Bwari council has always remained home to the APC even during opposition days and sought the support of the party supporters to return the council to the party. A party stalwart in the council, Isa Abdullahi Abara, commended the political maturity of the aspirant who, he said, deserves a good reward for his perseverance and sacrifices for APC, as a party. The APC chieftain described Hamza as a grassroots politician, adding that his inclusiveness approach has earned him the goodwill of his constituents. The APC aspirant, who was accompanied by the Byazhin elder’s forum led by their secretary, Emmanuel Akaazua, was received by the chairman of the party in the council, Ali Tanko Shere, along with his executive members. Meanwhile, ahead of the area councils’ primary elections in the FCT, Hon. Murtala Usman Karshi, the Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) chairmanship aspirant, also on the ticket of APC, has expressed worry that the present delegates are only on acting capacity, and wondered whether the April 19 primaries would be by direct or indirect voting. Usman, who spoke in Abuja, therefore urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to educate FCT voters on the modalities to be adopted for the upcoming primaries and reiterated the call for peaceful conduct of the elections. Usman, who was the supervisor, health as well education 2016-2021, wants the FCT to be a better place to live for both original inhabitants and settlers. He said though AMAC has been substantially developed, there are still other areas that are yet to get basic primary health care, primary schools, potable water and roads. He added that most of the agricultural products are produced in the villages in the hinterland hence if elected, he would open up such places. 