Necessary machinery has been put in place to reconcile Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of Sokoto State, former governor of Kano State Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso and a former minister of Foreign Affairs, Aminu Wali, over issues revolving around the PDP North-West zonal congress, Daily Trust gathered. At the Kaduna Trade Fair Complex on Saturday, the supporters of Tambuwal and Kwankwaso clashed during the North-West zonal congress of the party, leading to an abrupt postponement of the exercise. The dispute, Daily Trust gathered from party sources, was over the position of zonal vice chairman which was zoned to Kano State. Two factions exist in Kano PDP; the Wali and Kwankwaso factions. The Kwankwaso faction has an upper hand over the Wali camp in terms of control of party structures in the state. Moves by Kwankwaso and Tambuwal to have control of the party in the zone ahead of the 2023 elections ignited the clash, it was gathered. A source in the party told Daily Trust that before a new date would be fixed, the party chieftains would be reconciled. Contacted, the PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, confirmed that moves are on to reconcile the stakeholders. He also said that leaders of the North-West zone of the party have been asked to work out another date for the congress in the zone. “You know we are in the Holy month of Ramadan now, so we don’t know yet. But, we have pushed it to the leaders of the North-West to come together and agree on when to hold it. “We have called the leaders of the North-West to work out the reconciliation process, while major stakeholders from the national headquarters will also work on the reconciliation among the contending parties,” he said. Meanwhile, campaign posters of a former Senate president and chairman,National Reconciliation Committee of the PDP, Bukola Saraki, have flooded the national secretariat of the party in Abuja. Our correspondent sighted the posters with the inscription ‘A Fresh Start’ posted on the perimeter fence at the party’s headquarters. The posters were also sighted in other locations of the capital city.