Crisis in the Kano State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) deepened yesterday as a faction of the party  “purportedly” suspended a former governor of the state, Senator Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso. The PDP in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, however said Kwankwaso as a member of the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) can’t be easily suspended without following the provisions of the party’s constitution. “The PDP states clearly that Senator Kwankwaso is not suspended from the party. Any claim of suspension by any individual or group, purporting to be representing any organ of our party at any level, is a mere fabrication and should be discountenanced,” the party said. Daily Trust reports that the faction that purportedly suspended Kwankwaso is loyal to a former Minister of Foreign Affairs, Aminu Wali, who has been in constant battle with Kwankwaso over the control of party structure in the state. Shehu Sagagi, chairman of the party in the state who accepted Kwankwaso as its leader, has however described the suspension as “rubbish.” The Wali-led faction, in a letter dated April 16 and signed by its secretary, H. A. Tsanyawa, said Kwankwaso was suspended over a three-count charge. The letter reads in part: “Leading his supporters into a shameful and embarrassing act of thuggery of disrupting the democratic process during the PDP North West Zonal Congress of April 10, 2021. “That you are also charged with abusing our two serving governors and major North West stakeholders present during the congress.” “That your supporters destroyed the election materials on your directives and in your presence.” According to the letter, the executive council meeting held on April 5, 2021, had unanimously resolved to suspend the former governor and his supporters for three months “in accordance with the provision of Section 58(1) of the PDP constitution.” It also requested Kwankwaso to answer the query within 48 hours by stating why sections 59(1) (2) (3) and (4) should not be applied against him. Meanwhile, Dr. Aminu Abdullahi has been appointed as the Chairman of North West Zonal Caretaker Committee of the PDP. Other members of the committee are; Alhaji Sani Baba, Hon. Ali Madaki, Hon. Ibrahim Lawal Dankaba, Hon. Hi Umaru Maye and Alhaji Akibu Dalhatu, while Alhaji Baba Kasim Ibrahim is secretary. According to the appointment letter signed by the National Organising Secretary, Colonel Austin Akobundi (rtd), the caretaker committee is charged with the responsibility of running the affairs of the party in the zone until a new executive committee is elected.  From Clement A. Oloyede (Kano), Hamisu Kabir Matazu (Abuja) & Maryam Ahmadu-Suka (Kaduna) 