The 2021 Honda Accord Hybrid is one of the top-rated hybrids and electric cars largely due to its spacious cabin, user-friendly features, refined handling, and swift acceleration. It is a good medium-size sedan, which offers all the benefits of the regular Honda Accord but with even better fuel economy. The Accord Hybrid has a spacious interior with quality materials, an easy-to-use infotainment system, and a sizeable trunk. It rides comfortably over rough road surfaces, and it is very agile around turns. The hybrid system provides plenty of punch for everyday driving, though it does begin to taper off at highway speeds. The Accord Hybrid is packed with active safety features as well. All in all, the main thing holding this Honda back is a below-average predicted reliability rating. Compared with the 2020 model, there are a few key differences between the two models. For 2021, Honda restyled the Accord’s grille, and previously optional features including an 8-inch touch screen, Apple CarPlay, and Android Auto are now standard. The biggest difference is to the hybrid system, which has been updated to provide a quicker throttle response. The changes have, however, been consistent since 2018 except the 2019 and 2020 models with slight differences. For instance, the 2018 model was fully redesigned with a roomier back seat and larger trunk; added more available features like a head-up display, traffic sign recognition, and wireless device charging. But in 2019 and 2020, there were no major changes while the 2021 comes with a restyled grille, an updated hybrid system, and more standard features. Competition The major competitor to this is the Toyota Camry hybrid with both offering composed handling, a comfortable ride, roomy seating space, and upscale interior trimmings. Both cars also come packed with active safety features, and they start at around the same price point. The Camry rates higher for predicted reliability, and it yields better fuel economy in its standard configuration. On the other hand, the Accord feels a bit zippier when accelerating. Test-drive both cars to see which you prefer. Accord Hybrid and Child Car Seats There are two complete sets of latch connectors for the rear outboard seats and a tether anchor for the rear middle seat. This car-seat anchors are easy to find and maneuver around, and they don’t require too much force to attach. Accord Hybrid Engine The Accord Hybrid is 16 feet long. Its curb weight ranges from 3,327 to 3,415 pounds. The Honda Accord Hybrid is equipped with a 212-horsepower hybrid system, which includes a 2.0-liter four-cylinder engine, two electric motors, a lithium-ion battery pack, and a continuously variable automatic transmission (CVT). Front-wheel drive is standard. The four-cylinder engine kicks in to assist at higher speeds, though it can also act as a generator at lower speeds. It sounds a little buzzy and can drone at times, but this is more of a quirk than an issue.