Social Democratic Party (SDP) on Saturday denied zoning its ticket for Anambra 2021 governorship polls to Anambra south senatorial district. South- East, Zonal chairman of the SDP, Arinze Ekeleme told Daily Trust in Awka that the party’s ticket remains open to all three senatorial zones. The state chairman of the party, Webster Okonkwo, after a meeting with the 21 local government chairmen and state executive officers of party on Tuesday announced that SDP had zoned the governorship ticket to Anambra South Senatorial District. Ekeleme said that the decision to zone the party governorship ticket to any zone in the state can only be exercised by the National Working Committee and not the state executive, local government chairmen, or any person. “Before any decision on zoning can be taken, the national must know about it, it is not what one man or group will just wake one morning and declare,” he said. According to him, the national was not happy when they heard that the party governorship has been zone to Anambra South Senatorial District by the state executive. “I don’t know where they derived the power to zone the governorship ticket to Anambra south,” he said. He however disclosed that two persons have declared interest to contest the governorship seat of the state on the platform of SDP and none is from the South. Ekeleme also disclosed that the party had since April 5th commenced the sales of nomination form and it would close on 5th May. According to him, the party nomination form is N10 million, while expression of interest is just N1 million. On the party’s chances of winning the governorship election, he said that SDP is strong and united unlike the other parties in the state, riddled with problems. ,”We are strong and confident about ourselves to go to the election and win. SDP has changed to good, there is no problems in the party and every court case in the party is settled. I hope that the problem in People’s Democratic Party PDP, All Progressive Grand Alliance, APGA and All Progressive Congress, APC, will be an added advantage for us to win the governorship election in the state” he said.