The Super Eagles of Nigeria leaned on their international contingent to qualify for AFCON 2021. They landed the ticket for the tournament in Cameroon before kicking a ball in Benin Republic, and celebrated with two wins to end the qualifiers unbeaten. Aside Enyimba players and captain Ahmed Musa who is still on the lookout for a new club, all players returned to their Europe base after the Lesotho clash, dropping the green and white to don their club colours. We preview where many of our Eagles can be monitored this weekend. Iheanacho and Nididi plot Man City downfall in England In the English Premier League, Kelechi Iheanacho was named the EPL player of the month for March and together with dependable midfielder Wilfred Ndidi, Seniorman Kels will look to add to his five league goals scored last month against Pep Guardiola’s runaway league leaders Manchester City. Semi Ajayi is, however, still searching for his first match since a red card in February and the versatile defender would hope to play some part in the relegation-threatened club’s visit to Chelsea, unbeaten since Thomas Tuchel took over from Frank Lampard. Alex Iwobi should also play some part in Everton’s Monday night fixture against Crystal Palace while Ola Aina should start for Fulham at Aston Villa. Osimhen and Onuachu to continue good form. In attack, the deadly duo of Victor Osimhen and Paul Onuachu will feature for Napoli and Genk respectively. Osimhen has been besieged by injury layoffs but the former Lille striker is nearing his best and should continue his return to form against Crotone. Onuachu, however, is the leading goalscorer in the Belgian Jupiler league and will lead RKC Genk’s push to a slot into next season’s UCL qualifying phase at OH Leuven. Best of the rest In the goalkeeper section, Maduka Okoye should make it 22 consecutive starts and fight for his eighth clean sheets this season against PEC Zwolle in the Dutch Eredivisie. Francis Uzoho, however, would look to make it eight straight game for APOEL Nicosia in Cyprus. He recently reclaimed his starting place after recovering from a long-term injury suffered while playing for Nigeria. In Portugal, Zaidu Sanusi, fresh from brilliant wingback display for Nigeria would face his former club Santa Clara who visit Estadio do Dragao to face Porto, while Chidozie Awaziem will join Boavista’s trip to Belenenses SAD. Oghenekaro Etebo and Henry Onyekuru, both on loan at Galatasaray should play in the Istanbul club’s visit to Hatayspor, while Samuel Chukwueze who has featured in all five matches since returning from injury is expected to star for Villareal at Granada in the Spanish La Liga. The duo of Joe Aribo and Leon Balogun also returned to Rangers in Scotland and should be part of the team for the Scottish Champions’ third round tie in the FA Cup. Selected Fixtures