Super Eagles of Nigeria’s Kelechi Iheanacho is set for a new deal at Leicester City in the summer, according to Daily Mail. The forward has been in excellent form recently, scoring seven goals for Leicester City in the month of March, including netting twice against Manchester United, knocking out the red devils at the Quarter finals stage of the FA Cup, leading to his award as the EPL Player of the Month for March. He also assisted Victor Osimhen for Nigeria’s first goal in the Super Eagles’ 3-0 win over Lesotho in the AFCON qualifying match at Teslim Balogun stadium on Tuesday. Iheanacho currently has a year left on his £60,000 per week deal and Leicester wants to keep him, according to manager, Brendan Rodgers, during his press conference towards the visit of Manchester City, the player’s former club, to King Power stadium on Saturday. “He is someone who we would want to have. You aim to have a squad which is developing and getting better, and he can contribute to that. “I am pretty sure there will be something organised between him and his representatives,” he said. Popular in the Leicester dressing room, the 24 years old Taye Academy graduate has scored six league goals this season, one more than he managed last season. Rodgers hailed his commitment and resilience as factors in the upturn in form and thinks the Imo State-born player is an important member of the team. “Kelechi has kept a great attitude and is a really committed player, and he is very resilient. You will have seen moments during this season like the match away at Crystal Palace where he didn’t have his best game and it looked as if his confidence was down. “Our job as managers and coaches is to make him feel important, because he is. At the age of 24 he is developing and showing a really high level and the aim is to continue that.” Iheanacho joined Leicester City in 2017 for £25million. He has featured in 28 matches in all competitions for Leicester this season- starting fifteen- and has scored 12 goals.