The much awaited 20th National Sports Festival may have come and gone but it wasn’t a smooth sail from the moment Edo was confirmed as the host state. It will be recalled that ‘Edo 2020’ was to be held in March 2020. However, with just a week to go, the Sports Minister, Sunday Dare and the Presidential Task Force citing worldwide coronavirus pandemic called off the ‘Nigerian Olympics’. It was well understood because the killer virus was wreaking havoc across the globe. However, with sports activities gradually resuming across the world, expectations were high for Nigeria to follow suit. After sustained pressure from stakeholders, the sports ministry fixed a new date for December 2020. Again, it wasn’t to be as the games was moved to February 2021 as proposed by the sports ministry. The month of February too came and went without the sports festival. Finally, it was agreed by the Federal Ministry of Sports and the National Council of Sports that the 2020 National Sports Festival should hold from April 2-14. As the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory intensified preparations for the games, a huge shadow of doubt loomed as the host state continued to complain of lack of funds to host the over 7,000 athletes and officials. At a point, it was said the festival would be moved from Edo State to Abuja just the way it was finally staged in Abuja in 2018 when Cross Rivers State failed to host. However, amidst uncertainties and suspense, the 20th edition of the festival was finally held in Benin City. As stated earlier, it wasn’t a smooth sail. Therefore, Trust Sports takes a critical look at some of the hiccups that almost marred the biggest sporting event in Nigeria. Edo government’s face-off with sports ministry Without any iota of doubt, the host state, Edo was ready to host the sports festival as they had invested heavily in facilities needed for the games. The Samuel Ogbemudia stadium was renovated and equipped with the necessary facilities. However, the several postponements had a crippling economic effect on the state leaving Edo with no option than to seek intervention funds from the Federal Government. Based on the federal government’s pledge to support the state, Edo kicked off the festival on April 2. Unfortunately, a few days into the games, the Local Organising Committee led by the state’s deputy governor, Philip Shaibu threatened to shut down the festival, if the Federal Government through the Sports ministry failed to fulfil its obligations. The LOC chairman made good his threat when he locked out members of the Main Organising Committee. With the looming embarrassment, the Presidency immediately swung into action and expressed full commitment by promising to credit the account of the state with N500m. Few days to the end of the games, the LOC chairman told the press that the federal government was yet to redeem its pledge of N500m. Even as the curtains fell on the games on Wednesday, there was no official confirmation from the Edo State government as to whether or not the money was paid. Athletes struggle for water, food The University of Benin was used as the camp to house the athletes and officials from all the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory. Shortly after their arrival, expectations for a seamless time in the camp were dashed as athletes were seen in queues struggling to get water to wash their clothes. According to the athletes, it was frustrating climbing up and down the staircase to fetch water at a nearby tap after queuing for long. They equally complained about the mosquitoes as well as the poor quality and quantity of food served them in the camp. Therefore, scrambling for food was a common sight among the athletes. Volunteers accuse MOC, LOC of short-changing them In competition of this magnitude, volunteers are recruited to assist the players, officials in ensuring the games go well. Expectedly, they are paid stipends for their efforts. Speaking exclusively with some volunteers who declined giving their names to avoid being victimised by the authorities, they said they were promised N50,000 but have been paid just N15,000. “We were promised N50,000 by the LOC through the Edo State Skills Development Agency (Edo Jobs) which is the agency that recruited us for the volunteering job. “Before we resumed, they told us how much they would pay us. They collected our account numbers as well. We were going to protest for them to pay us. So they paid us N15,000 only. “Later on, we heard they were going to pay us N30,000 not N50,000. We just feel they have cheated us and it is not fair.” When Trust Sports chatted one of the supervisors who simply gave his name as David, he said there was no written contract with the volunteers and they would be paid N30,000 not N50,000 as claimed. Fans attack officials over poor officiating Oftentimes, fans take laws into their hands when certain decisions from the referees don’t go their way, especially when they feel cheated by such decisions. This Festival witnessed such violence from the fans on two occasions in two different sports. The first was the football finals between Team Edo and Team ladies at the sports complex in Uniben when the Lagos fans felt cheated following the decision of the fourth official to indicate just one minute additional time after the team Edo keeper had wasted 10 minutes when she received treatment. The fans threw caution to the wind and it was free for all. The same scenario played out when officials and players of Team Ogun disrupted the boxing bout against Team Lagos over an alleged biased decision by the referees. Chairs were thrown into the boxing ring just as the referees and other officiating officials were physically assaulted. Athletes, coaches protest poor welfare packages Athletes and officials from states like Osun, Ondo, Ekiti, Rivers, Edo amongst others had either threatened to protest or boycott the festival following non-payment of their camping allowances by their states. Osun coaches complained that the government paid them only three out of seven nights spent in camp. It was gathered that they were paid N6,000 per day It was nothing different in Ekiti as athletes from the state protested over non payment of their allowances since the beginning of the sports festival. Most of the athletes frowned at the token of N30,000 paid to each of them when Delta State paid a much higher amount of money. Despite the challenges faced by the host state as well as the athletes and officials from the 36 states and the FCT, the Sports Festival has come and gone. Delta amassed 158 gold, 116 silver and 110 bronze medals to win games three times in a row. As a result, they were handed the trophy for keeps. Host Edo State placed second with 129 gold, 104 silver and 108 bronze medals while Bayelsa State came in third with 56 gold, 55 silver and 58 bronze medals just as Rivers won 33 gold, 34 silver and 61 bronze medals to come fourth. The festival has ended but stakeholders will continue to review the 20th edition just as Delta State begins preparations to host and win the 21st edition of the ‘Nigerian Olympics’.