A Fulani herder, Muhammed Maikudi, has been shot dead at a forest reserve in Ifira Akoko in Akoko South East local government of Ondo State. Daily Trust gathered that a local hunter, identified as Seyi Sansere, killed Maikudi when he was grazing his cows in the forest reserve in the area. It was not clear if the deceased had an altercation with the hunter before he was shot. It was gathered that the state security outfit, Amotekun corps and policemen in the area quickly waded into the matter, retrieved the deceased’s corpse and deposited it at a government hospital morgue in the council area. The security operatives also apprehended Sansere from his hideout and took him into custody. A leader of the Hausa Fulani Community in the state, Bala Umar, who confirmed the incident said preliminary investigation revealed that the late herder was traced to the forest by his assailant where he was shot. He, however, appealed to Fulani settlers in the area to be calm and not take laws into their hands. He said the police and Amotekun operatives are already on top the situation and assured that justice will be done on the matter. “The suspect has been transferred to the state police headquarters in Akure for more discreet investigations. We have appealed to our people to be calm because we know that the government and security agencies will do justice to the case” Bala said Spokesperson of the Ondo Police Command, Tee Leo Ikoro, said he had yet to be briefed on the incident. The state commander of Amotekun Corps, Adetunji Adeleye, said his men were not involved in the shooting of the late herder but only worked with the police to ensure there is peace in the area after the incident. He said it was not a case of herders- farmers clash as the Sansere allegedly carried out the act while hunting in the forest. He expressed optimism that the police will do justice to the case, assuring of the government’s readiness to protect all law abiding citizens in the state. “It was a local hunter who shot dead the young herder. Our Operatives were not involved. We only made efforts to ensure there is peace in the community.” Adeleye said The 24 year old Maikudi who hailed from Katsina state is a father of two kids. He was reportedly engaged by one Alhaji Akerele, a Fulani man from Ilorin, Kwara State, to graze his cows before he met his untimely death. His kinsmen have made entreaties to the police for the release of his remains for burial in line with Islamic rites. Clashes between herders and farmers have led to casualties on both sides in the state over the years. Leaders of Hausa Fulani Community, state government officials and security agencies have held several meetings with herders and farmers on the need to be accommodating and live in peace.