Six governors elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senators and other prominent politicians in the party yesterday visited Governor Bello Matawalle of Zamfara State to stop his reported moves to return to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The six governors who met with Matawalle in Gusau, the state capital, were; Seyi Mankinde (Oyo), Darius Ishaku (Taraba),   Nyesom Wike (Rivers), Bala Mohammed (Bauchi), Umaru Fintiri (Adamawa) and Aminu Waziri Tambuwal (Sokoto), who led the delegation. Chairman of the APC Governors Forum (PGF) and Governor of Kebbi State, Senator Atiku Bagudu had on Monday, led Yobe State Governor and Chairman of the APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, Mai Mala Buni as well as Jigawa state governor to Gusau and donated N50 million to victims of Gusau market fire after holding talks with Matawalle. But sources confided in Daily Trust that the governors also held talks on Matawalle’s planned defection to the APC. Speaking during the yesterday’s visit, Governor Tambuwal announced the donation of N100 million from the PDP Governors Forum, adding that the last visit by APC governors to the state was political. He took a swipe at the APC and its governors for allegedly taking advantage of people’s misfortunes in the state to play politics. Tambuwal asked the APC-led government to concentrate its energy on ending insecurity and poverty in the country. “We can’t be intimidated by federal might, Zamfara is our home and no visitor can supplant the homeowner. “I pity leaders that seek to take advantage of people’s misfortune for their selfish interest. Governor Matawalle is our brother and we are going to work with him come rain come shine,” Tambuwal said. In his response, Governor Matawalle said since the PDP was in the state to tender their apology, the apology is accepted. “If a crying child is abandoned by his mother by the roadside, he takes help from whoever offers it to him,” he added. Meanwhile, the PDP NWC has said it would soon reconcile the former Governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose and Governor of Oyo State, Seyi Makinde. The party in a statement yesterday by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said the move was part of its effort to win the South West geopolitical zone in future elections. Fayose and Makinde are at daggers-drawn over who controls the party structures in the South West.