The newly appointed vice-Chairman of Lobi Stars, Mr. Tama Aondofa on Thursday, April 15, incurred the wrath of the Deputy Governor of Benue State, Engineer Benson Abounu who reprimanded him for exhibiting youthful exuberance in the discharge of his duties. The vice-chairman of the club had contracted a kit manufacturing company in Holland, Masita to partner with Lobi Stars without the approval of the deputy governor and other board members. Consequently, Abounu who spoke at the unveiling of the new Masita kits at the Benue Hotels accused the new vice-chairman of illegal transaction and an attempt to run a one man show. The visibly angry deputy governor who had to stop proceedings to call the vice-chairman to order maintained that he wasn’t aware of the partnership with Masita but had to attend the unveiling as directed by Governor Samuel Ortom. His words “I just have put one or two things straight. I have observed that Tama in his youthful exuberance and how he wishes to quickly make it has missed one or two points and it is important I set the record straight, otherwise we might be doing something that is illegal. “I never heard about this. I am the Chairman of the club. Nobody ever said one word to me that Lobi Stars was going to sign a partnership with Masita. “The first time I heard it was in the afternoon yesterday (Wednesday) when the Governor called me to say there is this event that will be taking place and it won’t be nice, if you are not around. “I asked him which event is that?. Of course, the governor took it for granted that I was aware. But then, it is nothing personal.  I don’t own Lobi Stars. Lobi Stars has a board and it is only the board through a resolution that can say we can now sign a partnership with another organisation.” Abounu then directed that the unveiling should continue but instructed the vice-chairman to immediately convene a board meeting the mandatory approval to deal with Masita. “I will, therefore, on behalf of the board and as the chairman of the board, say that we go ahead with the unveiling of the jerseys and then as soon as possible call a board meeting that will legitimise what we are about to do in a few minutes. I hope I have made a point.” Consequently, the event went on as scheduled as the home and away jerseys of Lobi Stars designed by the new kit company were unveiled before a scanty crowd.