Nigerians had quite an interesting period in the outgoing week and this did not just include preparations for Easter. To start off the week, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu celebrated his 69th birthday with a colloquium in Kano State. Perhaps this was why the haze resurfaced all of a sudden in the ancient city of Kano; there was poor visibility, rescheduling and cancellations of flights. The haze, however, didn’t stop other top officials from joining the colloquium virtually at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport in Abuja. On Tuesday, the 30th of March, President, Muhammadu Buhari left Nigeria for London on a medical trip after being stuck with Nigerians through 2020 as a result of the pandemic. Of course, it didn’t matter that Resident Doctors had threatened to commence indefinite strike at the time (and are currently on strike) or that insecurity is rife across the country, or that Nigeria needs its President earnestly. Whereas in Borno, Prof. Babagana Zulum did what some Nigerian politicians have been known for. Thankfully, he didn’t fry akara or buy roasted corn by the roadside, he elevated the game to the next level as his convoy stopped to help a group of women fetching firewood. This is in no way suggesting that Prof. Zulum couldn’t have had pure intention, but you know, trusting Nigerian politicians could lead to heartbreak. While Nigerians were speculating on the President’s London trip, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo chaired the Federal Executive Council on Wednesday, the 31st. He had black face mask, and you know what that means? Only elites and people that have made it in life wear black facemasks (LOL). Nothing really serious happened on Thursday, the 1st of April, just Nigerian Doctors on strike, but who needs Nigerian Doctors when we can go to London to meet the ones that are there for treatment? On Friday morning, Nigerians woke up to an intelligence report from the Nigerian Air Force that a fighter jet deployed against Boko Haram in Borno was missing. Time to use the Easter to pray for the resolution of the missing jet.