The Association of National Accountants of Nigeria, ANAN has concluded plans to establish a polytechnic in Keffi, Nasarawa state as part of efforts to widen the platform for training of accountants as well as making the profession more attractive. National President of the Association, Prof. Muhammad Akaro Mainoma, mni, FCNA spoke in Abuja on Saturday at a dinner organised by the FCT 1 branch in his honour. The event also coincided with the launching of maiden magazine of ANAN FCT 1 branch, Accountants’ Voice. The president hinted that the establishment of the Polytechnic is in partnership with a private organisation who will see to the day to day running of its affairs. This is coming few months after the National Universities Commission, NUC granted the Association provisional licence for the establishment of ANAN University, Kwall Plateau state. Prof. Mainoma whose tenure will wind up this month further stated that discussions have reached advanced level with the National Board for Technical Education, NBTE to secure the operational license for ANAN Polytechnic this year. “Site has already been determined. We are waiting for them (NBTE) to inspect and give us licence. So very soon, you will also be hearing about ANAN Polytechnic in Keffi. “While the Polytechnic will commence with about five different programmes including Computer Engineering, Computer Science, Accounting and others, our university for now is just for Accounting matters; taxation, financial management and related matters. Mother of the day and MD/CEO Nigerian Agricultural Insurance Corporation, NAIC, Folashade Joseph FCNA expressed gratitude to ANAN for the role it has played in training and educating professionals in the field of Accountancy for national growth. Chairman of FCT 1 branch of the ANAN, Mr. Wahab Shina Omoniyi expressed gratitude to his team for offering the needed support in piloting the affairs of the branch despite challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic which was at its peak when the EXCO was elected. While applauding members for their full support, Omoniyi who took over leader last September said their goodwill has helped in the continuation of the branch’s scholarship scheme at Federal Science And Technical College, Orozo, Abuja. Earlier in his address, Chairman of the occasion DCG Filibus Bitrus, Rtd., FCNA extolled the achievements of ANAN FCT 1 under the leadership of Mr. Wahab Shina Omoniyi. In his comment, the Acting Director-General of National Broadcasting Commission, NBC Prof. Armstrong A. Idachaba congratulated ANAN for coming up with modalities that can assist in solving some of the problems confronting the country.