The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) listed the University of Abuja (UniAbuja) among institutions conducting illegal admission. In a statement, Head, Public Affairs and Protocols of JAMB, Fabian Benjamin, said the university is among the institutions issuing admission letters to candidates without recourse to the Board. “It is, therefore, pertinent to state that such admissions that have not been proposed, approved nor accepted on the Central Admissions Processing System(CAPS) are null and void, and as such,” Benjamin said He said asking hapless candidates to pay acceptance fees for such admissions that has not been processed through CAPS amounts to illegality. “Consequently, such admissions are illegal, unacceptable and offensive to extant rules and regulations guiding admissions to tertiary institutions in Nigeria as approved by the Federal Ministry of Education and provided on CAPS,” he said. The Board instituted CAPS in 2017 as an automated platform designed to ensure that admissions are transparently done to protect the interest of all Nigerians desirous of tertiary education. “The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board, therefore, advises all candidates not to accept any admissions that are not provisioned on CAPS. “By implication, any candidate who has not accepted and printed his/her admissions letter on CAPS should not pay any acceptance fee as any admission done outside CAPS is an illegitimate admission that would not be sanctioned by the Board.” He also said admission guidelines stipulate that institutions recommend qualified candidates through CAPS in accordance with laid-down criteria to the Board for approval. According to him, any institution violating this well-intentioned guidelines has much to hide and the Board would not shy away from its responsibility of ensuring compliance to laid-down admission guidelines. “The Board will not relent in its efforts to ensure that no institution violates the extant admission guidelines.” “Candidates are advised, in their own interest, not to accept such admissions done outside the purview of JAMB nor pay any acceptance fee as such admissions will never be allowed to stand,” he added. When contacted, the spokesperson of UniAbuja, Habib Yakoob, said the university follows due process in admission.