The Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr Godwin Emefiele has expressed worry over the low public awareness on their intervention initiatives. At a two-day CBN fair in Sokoto on Thursday, Emefiele said many people were not benefiting from these programmes because they were not aware or misinformed about them. Represented by the acting Director, Communications, Mr Osita Nwanisobi, the Governor explained that, the essence of the fair was to further sensitize customers and the Nigeria public on how to access its various intervention and support programmes with a view to promoting and expanding financial stability and economic development which defines the theme of the fair. “We want Nigerians to take charge of the window of opportunities available to them through our intervention activities. Let them know how to access and benefit from the programmes which are meant for them.” He added that, small and medium scale farmers had been the focus of the apex bank especially with reference to the Anchor borrower scheme. The Sokoto branch Controller, Yusuf Wali Baba said, “We have made significant impact through anchor borrower programme, credit guarantee scheme and other agriculture related intervention initiatives.” Also at the fair which also held in Kebbi state yesterday, the Kebbi State branch Controller of CBN, Abdullahi Dantsoho, said participants were expected to ask questions and offer advice on such interventions adding that the fair was also expected to accord the apex bank the idea on how loans issued to businessmen and farmers impacted in the development of the economy. “The fair is organised as a means of feedback mechanism for the CBN. The forum gives room for interaction between the bank and the participants on the performance of the various intervention programmes and policies undertaken by the CBN on the development of the economy.” Amina Abdulmalik of the Currency Department of CBN, spoke on how business people can detect fake currencies. She also reminded the members of the public that the law against the abuse of naira was still enforced and therefore charged people to desist from mutilating naira notes.