Ogun Police Command has announced the dismissal of three police officers for allegedly extorting N153,000 from one Sheriff Adedigba, a student of Lagos State University (LASU). The three policemen, Inspector Sunday John, Jimoh Asimiya and Solomon Adedapo, allegedly extorted the young man while he was traveling from Abeokuta to Lagos. The spokesman for the Command, Abimbola Oyeyemi on Tuesday, in Abeokuta, told newsmen that following the report of the extortion, the Commissioner of Police, Edward Ajogun ordered the arrest and detention of the officers involved in the act. Oyeyemi said the officers were immediately arrested and subjected to orderly room trial on a three-count charge of corrupt practices, discreditable conduct and disobedience to a lawful order. According to him, the trio was found guilty of all the charges, and subsequently dismissed from the force to serve as a deterrent to others. He added that the money was recovered from the dismissed officers and returned to the victim. Oyeyemi said “Having heard about the incident on social media, the Commissioner of Police, CP Edward Awolowo Ajogun, ordered the immediate arrest and detention of the officers involved in the dastardly act. The three policemen were quickly identified and apprehended. “The money was recovered from them and returned to the victim. They were subsequently arranged for departmental orderly room trial on a three-count charge of corrupt practices, discreditable conduct and disobedience to lawful order. “They were found guilty of all the charges, and subsequently dismissed from the force to serve as a deterrent to others.” Oyeyemi quoted the CP to have appealed to members of the public to always “report any act of misconduct from any officer of the command to him personally, or through any of the principal officers of the command, as such will be treated with utmost urgency.” He also quoted Ajogun to have warned officers of the command to desist from any act capable of tarnishing the image of the command as such will not be condoned.