Barrister Orji Uchenna Orji, Commissioner for Information and State Orientation, has reacted to a false report about the First Lady of Ebonyi State. The wife of Governor David Umahi had been quoted as saying she will not vote for her husband in the All Progressives Congress (APC). Reacting in a statement, Orji said the wife of the governor is fully in support of her husband and his administration. “The attention of Ebonyi State Ministry of Information and State Orientation has been drawn to a vicious, mendacious and faceless post captioned: ‘I will not vote my husband in APC’ falsely credited to Her Excellency, wife of the Governor of Ebonyi State and made to trend in social media by political jobbers. “They have resorted to writing helplessly and derogatorily about the quintessential mother of the State and doyen of gender mainstreaming, Her Excellency, Chief (Mrs) Rachel Ogonna Umahi (Ogoo Nwanyi), Wife of the wonder working Governor of Ebonyi State. “While we take exception to this cheap and disrespectful blackmail, we make bold to state that the wife of our dear Governor is a proud card carrying member of All Progressives Congress, APC with registration number, EB/BZR/11/04202; she is a great pillar of support to our Divine Mandate Administration and champion of mobilization to the cause of APC in the State. Let it be further reiterated that the elegant and superlative amazon of our dear State joined APC with her husband as a response to the clarion call for South East to reintegrate into a party of national spread. “We therefore want to use this medium to admonish the remnants of PDP in the State that no amount of lies and fake news shall mitigate the tsunami that has brazenly befallen them since the glorious defection of the government and people of Ebonyi State to All Progressives Congress, APC . We also invite the members of the public to discountenance all the social media posts against the First Family of Ebonyi State as a worthless political strategy to misinform the gullible and elicit public sympathy to their unpleasant political fate . “Ebonyi State is irreplaceably APC and our dear Governor is indomitably delivering in his social contract with the people.”