Leicester City have announced that Super Eagles forward Kelechi Iheanacho has put pen to a three-year contract extension that will keep him at the King Power stadium until 2024. The 2016 English Premier League champions revealed this in a press release posted on their website on Saturday, though the fine details of the deal were not disclosed. “Leicester City striker Kelechi Iheanacho has signed a new deal with the Club, keeping him at King Power Stadium until at least 2024,” the statement read. Iheanacho, who recently won the EPL Player of the Month for March and has been in scintillating form of late expressed delight at renewing his stay with the Foxes and hopes to stay “many more years.” “I can’t express how I’m feeling,” the 24 years old started, “I’m excited, I’m happy, I’m overwhelmed! It’s a great moment and I’m happy that Leicester City gave me a new contract. “It’s been a great time here. It’s not been easy, but there’s a lot of people here that are good people, great people to work with. They are nice people and they make me feel comfortable and welcome since I came in. “It’s been really great being here. It’s like a family. I’m happy being here and hopefully I can stay here many more years.” The Super Eagles of Nigeria’s number 14 was previously rumoured to be close to a summer extension but his manager Brendan Rodgers had talked about making the deal soonest in his Friday press conference towards the Saturday visit of runaway EPL leaders Manchester City. “He is someone who we would want to have. You aim to have a squad which is developing and getting better, and he can contribute to that. “I am pretty sure there will be something organised between him and his representatives.” Popular in the Leicester dressing room, the Imo State-born player and Taye Academy graduate has scored six league goals this season, one more than he managed last season. Rodgers hailed his commitment and resilience as factors in the upturn in form and thinks him an important member of the Leicester City team. Iheanacho joined Leicester City in 2017 for £25million and has made 117 appearances for Leicester in all competitions, scoring 32 goals. He has already improved on his appearances and goals tally from last season with 12 goals from 28 games.