For Enyimba FC and Super Eagles goalkeeper, Bamidele Matthew Aiyenugba has said he is back in the Nigeria Professional Football league to inspire his son Daniel and other young goalkeepers in Nigeria. The Kwara United keeper who spent 13 years with four clubs in the Israeli league spoke to Trust Sports on his performance in the ongoing NPFL season and his saddest moment as a goalkeeper.  How satisfied are you with the recent performances of Kwara United in the ongoing season? We are trying our best. You know it is a long league season and we’ve just concluded the first round. But with our recent display, I will say I’m really satisfied. I believe we can still do more to take more points, especially from the away matches. We also want to try to make our home an impenetrable fortress because the point difference is pretty close. I am also happy that for the first time in recent years, Kwara United are performing superbly. How is your presence contributing to the success of Kwara United? I’m here to do my normal job and win as many points as possible for the team just like I did while in Israel. I also want to inspire and motivate the young ones. Together with my teammates, we’re fighting very hard for the club. What informed your decision to come back to NPFL and Kwara United in particular? I have had it all in Europe and I came back home most importantly because of my kid. As a goalkeeper too, I want to coach, motivate him. It is good for parents to witness their child growing and following the same path as you. I want to be part of it and be there for him to inspire him whenever he sees me play, to learn from me. He is showing a lot of promises with his performance and besides I want to give back to Kwara state because it’s where I started. I was accepted with open arms and I’m so much grateful to the management and coach. It has been a wonderful experience since I joined the team. Are you planning to return to Europe? That is up to God, if He decides I should go back, I’m always ready if the right offer comes. God has given me the grace of full fitness. I have no injuries. Having spent so many years in Israel, how have you been coping with the shortcomings in the NPFL? Returnees have to first be humble because you’re likely to come across a lot of things that don’t take place in Europe. If you think so much about the shortcomings, you can’t play football in Nigeria. You have to set your priorities right and focus on the goals of nurturing the young ones and push them to fight for their careers and dream of playing football beyond the shores of Nigeria. Playing in the NPFL is quite challenging. Teams sometimes travel for two days in buses that are not in great shape. The bottom line is humble yourself, ignore distractions. How do you think your presence will improve the NPFL brand? It will bring more fans to the stadium and create awareness. If not for Covid-19, many come on match days to watch me. Nevertheless, you can see some ardent fans climbing the scoreboard just to watch games and I’m glad I haven’t disappointed so far. Would you encourage other foreign based players to consider coming back home to add glamour to the NPFL? There is nothing bad in coming back as long as they can negotiate and agree on conditions with teams. In Israel, Yossi Benayoun after his EPL stint returned to Israel before he became manager at Beta Jerusalem. Other Israelis players also returned and added glamour to the league. It is a good thing. Most Nigerians remember your heroic exploits while at Enyimba. Did you plan to be a goalkeeper or it was a happenstance? I experienced the same thing my kid is going through now because I started playing in the street. There was a day we didn’t have a goalkeeper and I kept but fell in love with it. I’m grateful my dad was very supportive. He bought me my first boots and gloves. Since then, I have walked this path and never regretted being a goalkeeper. What is your most memorable moment as a goalkeeper? I will say it was when I was called upon to replace Vincent Enyeama at the last minute during the CAF Champions League semi-final match between Enyimba and Esperance of Tunisia. It happened so suddenly. I wasn’t prepared. Any sad moment? That will be Super Eagles failure to qualify for the Nations Cup while I was in goal and the journalists tried to put the blame on me. I can still remember the goals. It wasn’t my fault but the team. It was a disappointing time and it really affected my career but I’m grateful that I was able to weather the storm. You’re grooming your son who is also a goalkeeper. How convinced are you that he’s got the potential to go further than you? Yes, we just keep praying for him to be injury free and for protection. I will keep encouraging him. The signs are already there. He is learning really fast. Not long ago, he won the Best Goalkeeper Award at the 2021 Ramat Cup in Kano. Kwara State team emerged victorious. What is your advice to upcoming players, goalkeepers in particular? I will advise them to adopt my motto which is keep pushing yourself, never give up. Believe in yourself, don’t let anybody tell you, you can’t do it. Where do you see yourself in the next 10 years? Maybe I would have become a Team Manager or club Chairman.