Kogi State Governor and Chairman, Contact and Mobilisation Committee of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Yahaya Bello, has said more governors elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and other political bigwigs would soon dump the party. This is coming amidst speculation that Zamfara State Governor Bello Matawalle was perfecting plans to decamp from PDP to APC. Speaking with newsmen after a closed-door meeting of his committee at the APC headquarters on Thursday in Abuja, Governor Bello said governors in the opposition party knew that things were happening in the APC. He said: “I have a committee that is called Mobilisation of Youths, Women and People Living with Disabilities, mobilising them to join our party. “As much as we are mobilising youths, women and people living with disabilities, we are equally mobilising members of other political parties, including governors. “Remember, there are others that are youthful and those that are youthful at heart so we are bringing them into the party. You will see them in their numbers. “I told you that it is only one governor that will be the last one to join our party and you can see that everybody is coming into APC because this is where things are happening and this is the party that is moving the country forward. “That is why you see us strong and we are waxing stronger and moving forward in unison,” he said. Meanwhile, around the same time when governor Bello was making his statement,  the member representing Brass Constituency 1 in the Bayelsa State House of Assembly, Daniel Charles, dumped the APC for the PDP. Charles, who was elected on the APC platform in the 2019 general elections, is currently representing the constituency of the Minister of State for Petroleum and leader of APC in Bayelsa State, Chief Timipre Sylva. He announced his defection in a letter dated April 14, 2021, and addressed to the Speaker of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Abraham Ingobere and obtained by our reporter. He cited the leadership crisis within the hierarchy of the party as the reasons for his decision. 