The National Lottery Trust Fund (NLTF) has donated some vital medical equipment to New Karu Primary Healthcare Centre in Karu Local Government Area of Nasarawa State. The Executive Secretary of (NLTF), Dr Bello Maigari, said the handing over of the 34 equipment was a significant milestone in the funding of lottery good causes project in the country. Maigari announced the items donated to include one digital X-ray, 10 kidney discs, five thermometers, 10 HIV kits, one colour ultrasound machine and one genotype machine among other medical equipment. “The essence of the intervention is to provide vital medical equipment to under-served communities to save lives and reserve the deteriorating health conditions leveraging the use of hi-tech diagnostic equipment,” he said. He also stressed that the intervention was to provide high standards of care to vulnerable segments of the society in some states in the six geo-political zones. Mr Festus Daudu, the facilitator of the project, who was the pioneer permanent secretary of the Ministry of Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs and now permanent secretary, Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy, said he was happy the equipment was ready for handing over, saying it was his parting gift to his people, as he was due for retirement in a week’s time. “This ceremony could not have come at any better time than now, considering the fact that I have exactly one week from today to exit the service of the Federal Civil Service of Nigeria. “I, therefore, consider this landmark achievement as my parting gift to my people not only in New Karu, but in Nasarawa State as a whole,” he said. Gov. Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State, who was represented by Mr Philip Dada, Commissioner for Works and Transportation, expressed delight over the gesture by the NLTF, stressing that it would reduce the already overstretched facilities at the clinic. The NLTF is an agency under the Ministry of Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs. The commissioning and handing over of the equipment was the 40th of such interventions across health, education and the social sector.