The Abia State Governor, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu has explained why he differed with the strategy of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) secession and violence strategy. He spoke on Friday when he visited the digital pan-African news network, the TOS TV network, led by Ms. Osasu Igbinedion in Abuja. The governor who faulted the strategy being deployed by the IPOB led by self-exiled Nnamdi Kanu, however noted that the Ndigbo has not been fairly treated in the country. According to him, the destructive strategy of IPOB was a recipe for the breakdown of law and order in the South East geopolitical zone. Listing other reasons for differing with IPOB, the governor said, “But some of us do not agree with his (Nnamdi Kanu) style because I do not understand where he is going, when he intends to pull the brakes and when it is going to stop. If I have a way of conveying my view to the leadership of the group what I will say is they should find the way to enter into conversation and let people know. “I don’t understand their strategy and purpose. I don’t understand why they are attacking institutions of civil rule. A lot of people who are apologetic to some of these strategies don’t even know they are riding the tiger’s tail. If the police and military withdraw and then brigands become enforcers of the law and order, if you have a quarrel with your brother, how do you resolve it?” he said. While demanding a national apology for the treatment meted to the Igbos during the nation’s three-year civil war, Governor Ikpeazu said, “Our national orientation should be willing to say sorry. No person can be right 100 percent all the days of his life. Even in dealing with our children if we do things that are not right, we should have the courage to stoop low and say sorry but to create a utopian aura that all is well is either nothing is wrong or I have done it, what can you do? “Who is going to tell us what happened during the civil way, who did what and why? Why can’t some people come and tell us we are very sorry for what we did? You can’t sweep certain things under the carpet. “The tension is palpable and this is the time for us to open up as those who love the country. I speak this way because I spent seven years in the University of Maiduguri. I have gone through all part of northern Nigeria and I understand this country. “I feel sad that the strings that hold us together are gradually giving way. The NYSC has collapsed. We have to call a spade a spade no matter whose ox is formed. Some of the issues raised by Nnamdi were issues of injustice, marginalisation, inequality whether it is gender, generational whatever. Any particular arm of the society excluded in any way has a right to feel cheated or unwanted. So, some of those things Nnamdi says are valid. Some of us can see it. We cannot continue to run away from the facts.”