Kabiru Sa’idu Dakata, a Kano-based activist, who challenged Governor Abdullahi Ganduje over the controversial dollar videos, has alleged a threat to his life. In a Facebook post on Wednesday, he alleged that some suspected assailants have been tracking his movements. At a townhall meeting organised by BBC Hausa last month, Dakata, the Executive Director of Center for Awareness on Justice and Accountability (CAJA), asked Ganduje why the dollar videos had not been investigated. Ganduje, however, described the videos as fake, while promising to “go after people behind them”. But, speaking to Daily Trust on Friday, Dakata said, “I don’t blame anyone for this and I don’t have anything against anybody. It’s people that are mere speculating. But, I don’t suspect anyone. “Apart from asking of Dollar videos, CAJA is also in court with Kano state Government trying to stop it from collecting N300bn from China for the construction of light rail in metropolis. “The case is still pending in court and it is yet to allow them to get the loan. And, initially also, some suspect that I played a critical role in releasing those Dollar videos. “So, these are some of the reasons why some suspect the state for being behind this, but as I told you, I don’t suspect anyone. For now, I have stopped using the car people identify me with, the security of my area and office have also intensified. “I have been praying also and I have informed my lawyers of the development,” Dakata concluded. Earlier, Dakata posted on his Facebook page that, “On Saturday, my mechanic was driving my car at Murtala Muhammed Way Kano around 5pm, four guys on two motorcycles ran towards him. The person at the back of the motorcycle at the driver’s side shouted, “motar ce amma ba shi bane” (it is the car but he is not the one) the person driving the other motorcycle at the other side said, “mu juya kawai” (Let’s just move away). They ran faster and disappeared. “Today, I went to office around 11, the security man (Ibrahim) told me that somebody came to look for me around 8am. The man asked him what time do I normally come to office, the security man told him that I don’t have a specific time of coming to office. He then asked him of the time I am alone in the office, the security man said he has no idea, (afterwhich) he collected the security man’s phone number and promised to be calling him. He neither asked the security man of my phone number nor did he call him with his own number. “Tonight, around 9:50, the security men of our estate told me that three persons wearing face mask came in a white Honda car. After parking the car at the opposite to the gate, two of them came to the security men and asked of me, the security men asked them to call me but they replied that they didn’t have phone with them, after some seconds, they told the security men that they will come back. They went to their car and drove away. “I’m bringing this to the notice of all concerned, I’m discussing it with my lawyers for proper action.” Daily Trust reports that in 2018, Daily Nigerian, an online newspaper, released some videos which allegedly showed Governor Ganduje stuffing dollars, suspected to be kickbacks from contractors, inside his pockets. Earlier this week, the publisher of Daily Nigerian, Jaafar Jaafar, went into hiding after alleging fresh threats to his life.