The Pan-Igbo socio-political organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo (Worldwide) has said that the difference in views and positions among ndigbos is not a problem that can be exploited to rob them of the 2023 presidency. President General of the group, Prof. George Obiozor, said this on Monday in Abuja at a news conference. According to him, the divergent opinions on issues relating to politics was the hallmark of any democracy and that there has never been a time when politicians held single views. “Ndigbos were now more united and optimistic of clinching the presidency in 2023, hence lovers of democracy must take it upon themselves to provide the necessary support to the region. “Politics is a matter of choices, for the Igbos, having different opinions should not be a concern, for your information no section of the polity has just one opinion, Igbos have different opinions and the opinions converge on the presidency for southeast in 2023,” Obiozor said. He also said that all the registered political parties in the country must ensure that their presidential candidates come from the southeast to realise the agenda. On the clash of interest between the Eastern Security Network (ESN) linked to the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and Ebube Agu recently established by the Southeast Governors Forum, the Ohanaeze Ndigbo leader said any organisation working for the interest of the people is welcomed, provided they adopt a civil method of checking crimes and criminality in the region. Obiozor, who was the immediate past Nigerian Ambassador to the United States, added that it would amount to derailing the region from its objectives if all the federating units continue to play up theories that tend to portray Igbos as disunited. He said, “Many are called but few are chosen, regarding the Igbo presidency, we would sort ourselves out, just support us. We are tired of people dividing us with English language. It is about method. I don’t want any method that puts Igbos on harm’s way, every group in Nigeria is divided, Igbos are more united, Southeast is the most peaceful section of Nigeria. “All of a sudden, the idea of Igbo presidency has come, people want to turn Igbos to troublemakers, violence, it is not in our character, it is not getting money through laziness like kidnapping. This time around the Nigerian President must come from Igbo land, if others achieved it, we must achieve it, give us our own chance, that is what Igbos are asking for because we deserve it and it’s reasonable. “I advise the press and ourselves to avoid certain things that are not necessary. Nobody can divide us, this time around, we can get the Presidency from Igbo land. Probability of Igbo Presidency in 2023 has become a possibility.”