The Kano State Governor,  Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, has said that his administration will establish a hermaphrodite centre for people with intersex complications in the state. He said the project will be executed in partnership with the TETFund Centre of Excellence of Usman Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS). Ganduje, according to a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Abba Anwar, on Thursday, made the disclosure while receiving seven people from the UDUS Centre, who were sponsored by the state and underwent successful surgical operations. They were received at a special session with all members of the state Executive Council in attendance at Kano Government House on Wednesday. The governor said, “We are now starting to establish a similar centre in Kano, in partnership with the Centre of Excellence, Usman Danfodiyo University, Sokoto. “We are institutionalising the process and intervention. Our concern is always the health and happiness of our people. “Kano state government was worried when we got information that there was one person with that intersex problem. We also learned that the person needed assistance for a surgical operation. “We quickly intervened and took the patient to Usman Danfodiyo University, Sokoto. “We then ordered for search for other similar cases in the state. “We got six other cases, whom we also sent to UDUS, Centre of Excellence. Alhamdulillah all of them were successfully operated,” Ganduje added. He further revealed that the state ordered for the search of more similar cases in the state, assuring that the state would sponsor their operations in the same centre, Sokoto. All the seven people, according to him, were operated free of charge as the state had paid for all their bills. The governor argued that places with a higher population may likely be more prone to such health issues, hence, Kano as the most populous state in the country has every tendency to have more of such people. During his presentation remarks, Professor Nasiru Yawuri, the Deputy Vice-Chancellor of UDUS, commended the state government and the foresight of the governor for sponsoring seven people for the surgical operation.