Residents of communities around the Armed Forces Command and Staff College (AFCSC), Jaji, Igabi Local Government Area of Kaduna State, have lamented the constant attacks from armed bandits. Their mission, according to some locals, is to abduct some staff of the college and the communities. This is coming in less than two months after bandits stormed the Federal College of Forestry Mechanization, Afaka, Mando, also in Kaduna and kidnapped no fewer than 39 students. AFCSC is a training facility for the Nigerian Armed Forces, including the Nigerian Army, Nigerian Air Force and Nigerian Navy. A resident of the area, who simply identified himself as Adamu, told Daily Trust via telephone that the bandits have been operating around the college. “It is only Allah that has been saving us. They (bandits) have always rustled cows in our communities. Military operatives do engage them in gun battle anytime they come around, that is why we don’t have major casualties yet,” Adamu said. The Commandant of the college, Air Marshal Olayinka Alade, confirmed this on Wednesday when he visited the Army Headquarters to brief Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Attahiru Ibrahim, on the development and other issues. Alade said the institution has decided to launch impromptu search and clearance operations in some communities where the bandits are operating around the college having informed General Officer Commanding 1 Division. “There are some communities around the school that have developed and because it is like part of the college, maybe they are hiding under that cover. Because of that, there is collaboration with other institution’s heads in the college. Constantly, we try to conduct an impromptu searching. We conduct search and patrol from time to time. “What we discovered now is that, not too far ahead, some communities… it is like all these bandits have made all that place their aim, so I discussed with GOC 1 Div. From time to time, we need to carry out clearance operations,” the Commandant said. The Commandant further disclosed that the bandits rustled some cows behind the college on Tuesday, April 13 – a development that led to gun duel between them and security operatives. According to him, “In fact, yesterday (Tuesday), I was told that some bandits came to rustle some cows just behind us. There was an exercise that was carried out by the NACI. They actually encountered these bandits, they had to exchange fire during the exercise. “Those are the things we’re trying to ensure that we are not surprised if they have come that close, then, we need to sit tight and ensure we clear that place.”