The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, has warned that the 2023 general election will not be realistic if the current security situation in the country continues to worsen. Secondus, who stated this during an emergency meeting of the National Executive Committee of PDP in Abuja on Thursday, also advised President Muhammadu Buhari to constitute a National Security Conference for comprehensive and all-embracing deliberations on the future of the country. He said the development in Nigeria was so frightening, saying it requires critical stakeholders of the party to deliberate and act on the situation. He noted that “All the ‘noise’ for 2023 will amount to nought if the security challenges are not drastically addressed”. Secondus said, “Our country today is grounded by insecurity and there has been no matching response from government despite the demands of the 1999 operating constitution in section 14 subsection (2b) that “the welfare and security of the citizens shall be the primary purpose of government. “Terrorists in the North before were confined to the North East region but today 50 villages have been reportedly taken by them in the North Central state of Niger. “Where they are now, we hear is about two hours drive away from Abuja. ‘Nigerians living in fear’ “Herdsmen are also menacing in the west, gunmen causing havoc in the east and the militants in the south all killing, looting, raping, maiming and burning down homes. The situation is bad, Nigerians all over are living in fear. “Clearly, anarchy is being let loose on the people with the government unable to provide any resistance. “We have therefore invited you to enable the party as the main opposition in the country to add its voice to the worrisome situation with a view to saving not just democracy but even the country. “Having shown clearly its incapacity, the APC led-government has swallowed its pride and now invited the international community to come and help out. “This ought to have been done long ago instead of pretending and spilling innocent blood.”