An Ilorin Magistrate court, presided over by magistrate Afusat Alege, on Thursday discharged a popular Ilorin Islamic cleric, Alfa Al-Solati popularly known as Kewulere, of the offence of ritual killings. It will be recalled that the cleric was charged to court alongside Sheidu Mumini, Isiaka Dauda, Suleiman Usman for allegedly killing one Sumo Usman for money rituals. Legal advice from the State Ministry of Justice through the office of the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP), exonerated Kewulere. Earlier, government prosecutor, Abubakar Issa, prayed the court to discharge Kewulere on the basis of the fact that legal advice has found him not guilty of the offence. His counsel, Aminat Abdulrahman, also corroborated the prosecutor, saying his client is a religious man with no past record of any criminality. Magistrate Alege, however, discharged Kewulere while the trial of other defendants was adjourned to April 12, 2021. Meanwhile, Prima facie facts were established against other suspects in the case, having been indicted for having a case of culpable homicide to answer. Criminal conspiracy, unlawful removal and possession of human parts were also sustained against the other three suspects. The legal advice also recommended that the suspects with their case files be transferred to a High Court for proper prosecution. This medium has earlier reported that Kewulere with other defendants conspired to kill one Sumo Usman of Fulani, Oko Olowo village, Ilorin and cut off his hand and head for money rituals while the other part was buried in the farm. Police investigation revealed that one of the suspects (Mumini), confessed that the deceased was killed with cutlass in a farm and that he cut off the hand and head for rituals. He further confessed that he contacted a herbalist, Dauda, to use the human parts for charms which were shared among the four of them. Police report added that Usman went to Sheidu’s house to dig up the grave and remove the deceased body which was buried in a shallow grave. 