A muiltibillion naira estate has brought development to a community in Rivers State. The brains behind it are unaninous that beyond the oil fortune in Nigeria, there are many opportunities in the real estate sector which will generate revenue for states, and job opportunities for youths. Prior to 2013 when the project was initiated, the expansive 40 hectares of land in the  Trans Amadi axis of Port Harcourt where the multibillion naira Gulf Estate is located was a swampy area that no one dared to enter.  Crime rate within the area was unprecedented as so many criminal gangs and street urchins used the swampy area as a hideout to perpetuate all kinds of crime. But all that changed in 2013 when former Governor Chibuike Amaechi’s administration engaged a Gambian property developer to develop the area. Thus the hitherto marshy and swampy area that was a no-go area was transformed and developed into an expansive  housing estate with beautiful gardens, landscapes and elitist duplexes, villa, town halls and other beautiful sports facilities such as golf course, football pitch, club house and tennis court. Mustapha Njie, a Gambian born property developer, is the man behind the transformation of the Trans Amadi swampy and marshy areas to a beautiful gulf estate. He is one of Africa’s most successful property developers. Mr. Njie’s Group, Taf Africa Homes, which has made significant  presence  in eight African countries including Gambia (his home), Nigeria, Senegal, Cameroon, Cote d’Ivoire (Ivory Coast), Mozambique, Togo and Rwanda, has indeed brought joy and improved the economic wellbeing of the people of Trans Amadi part of Port Harcourt. Njie’s partners include the Rivers State government (Nigeria), SVA Architects (South Africa) and Reid Steel Structural Engineers (UK). In Nigeria alone, the Group is behind the construction or negotiation of properties with a total worth of about $700 million. Mr. Njie has more than 30 years’ experience in property development. He is well known in international property development circles and has won many national (Gambian) and international awards, such as The Gambian Businessman of the Year (1993 and 2006), African SMME in Construction (2004), ECOWAS Honourable Businessman (2010) and European Council for Global Business (1998). Mr Njie told our reporter in Port Harcourt that somebody introduced him to the government of Rivers State in 2011 and between 2011 and 2012, an agreement and MOU was signed for the development of the Gulf Estate. “I was introduced to the Rivers State government in 2011 so as to develop the proposed Gulf estate. So, between 2011 and 2012, we negotiated and agreed and signed an MOU and then signed Joint Venture Agreement (JVA) and then started the operation in 2013.  When I came from Gambia to invest in Nigeria, a company was opened and it was called TAF Nigeria Homes of which Africa Global of Gambia of international brands owned about 50% then the other 50% was owned by the Nigerians and we have our Nigeria Directors who are investors,” he said. He said that TAF Nigeria negotiated with the Rivers State government that contributed equity of 20% which is the 40 hectares of land where the estate is situated. “So the value of the land donated by the state government is in equity of 20% while TAF Nigeria Homes contributed 80% in the total capital investment. This is how the name RIVTAF came about. Rivers State government and TAF Nigeria are to be called RIVTAF Gulf Estate,” he said. The RIVTAF Golf Estate, according to Mustapha who conducted our reporter round the estate, is the largest luxury housing estate in the South-South zone of Nigeria and built on about 40 hectares of land. “It is a luxury estate with excellent landscaping, water reticulation, sewage and electricity systems. Its facilities also include security, golf course, and clubhouse with a swimming pool. It is a housing estate of over 1,000 (One Thousand) homes comprising 608 (six hundred and eight) medium density apartments of 2 (two) and 3 (three) bedroom flats, 62 (sixty-two) medium density 4 bedroom townhouses, 38 (thirty-eight) low density 4/5 bedroom villas within phase 1; and 120 (one hundred and twenty) 4/5 bedroom luxury Villas, 30 (thirty) 4 bedroom town houses, 180 (one hundred and eighty) serviced plots for townhouses/villas and a 9-hole golf course within phase 2; and 1 (one) shopping centre, among others, lying along Peter Odili Road, Trans Amadi, Port Harcourt. “TAF Nigeria Homes Limited in partnership with the Government of Rivers State, through a special purpose vehicle incorporated as RIVTAF Nigeria Limited, developed middle to a high-income housing estate in Port Harcourt known as RIVTAF Golf Estate. While the government provided 39.82 hectares of land for the project at Peter Odili area of Port Harcourt, Rivers State, Nigeria, TAF Nigeria Homes Limited provided the expertise and financing for the design, development and management of the RIVTAF Golf Estate project. The project consisted of the development, building, and management of middle to high-income housing estate as well as the development and delivery of infrastructures such as a clubhouse (with facilities such as gym, swimming pool), recreation centre, a 9-hole golf course, shopping mall, 24 hours security (both armed and unarmed security operatives), central water, sewage and electricity systems” “TAF Nigeria Homes Limited is a sister company of Taf Africa Global (Gambia) Limited, a Gambian company that has been in the real estate business in other African countries for over 28 years. Mustapha said that the expansive land on which the estate is situated was in swampy and marshy areas and was landfilled with about 650,000 cubic metres of sand. “The buildings are in phases. Total land we have contributed is about 40 hectares; the 25 hectares is for the first phase and land was hard land but the extra 25% hectares that makes up the second phase was all water swampy areas and we have to landfill the whole 25 hectares.  We landfilled a total volume of 650,000 cubic metres of sand and we were able to build on it. The engineering works were done as well as the geo technical studies and we did the design for the foundations and the composition of the buildings for the first phase has about 608 apartments,” he said. According to him, the estate, apart from bringing development to the area, empowered the youths of the community with attendant reduction of crime in the community. He said that youths of the community were engaged as critical stakeholders in the projects and many of them were trained in building projects just as others were empowered through supplies and other contractual jobs. “We should know that in this part of Nigeria, community issues are very strong. We engaged the youths of the community in carrying out the projects. There was a good dialogue and we engaged them in a quick relationship by making them understand that what benefit the project will bring to the area in terms of employment and development will also benefit them. We started employing them from the community; not only employing them but we trained them on skills so many of them benefited. “So with business happening here, we gave them priority, for example, all the supplies are only made by them. So they saw the benefits that were coming to them. The employment we brought to the community brought down the crime rate. A Newspaper reported that the project has brought down crime rate in the area because many of the youths were gainfully employed. We also trained them as community contractors and certain works were done by them. Some of the buildings you see here were done by them,” he said. Njie added that Nigeria is a very huge property development potential, and Nigeria’s huge property investment index is yet to be tapped. Some of the residents of the area who spoke with our reporter said that the estate brought development as well as creation of economic empowerment to the teeming youths of the community. A resident of the area, Tarry Larry, said that the development of the estate opened the entire stretch of Trans Amadi and Gulf Estate streets for business activities. “Before now, the entire place was a swampy area and highly inhabitable. But the company landfilled the area and created so many access roads to the entire area. A place which before now was a no-go area with an increasing crime rate is now opened up and many youths who would have been involved in different kinds of crime were gainfully employed,” he said. One of the youths who benefited from the company’s employment scheme said that the company brought succour to many of the youths in the community. “It surprises me that a foreigner can come to Port Harcourt and carry out a huge development like this. I am one of the persons that work at the site. I was trained as a Mason and since then, I have been working and earning salaries. Many of the youths in the area also benefited from their training skills. Some have been trained to become building contractors. Apart from engagement of the youths, the presence of the estate promotes macroeconomic businesses with its accompanied value chain in building accessories such as sand, chippings, wood and all that,” stated the youths who preferred not to be mentioned. One of the community leaders of Trans Amadi who preferred anonymity commended former Governor Chibuike Amaechi for initiating the project. He said that Amaechi’s visionary leadership style initiated the project to provide affordable accommodation for the people of the state. For Mustapha Njie, the Gulf Estate has created a bond between the people of Rivers State and his home country, Gambia. According to him, “There is no love lost between me and the people of Nigeria and Rivers State in particular. The love bond between me and residents of the estate and the entire community is very cordial. During the last Christmas season, many of the estate residents gave me lots of gifts to give to my family in Gambia.”