The communities of Share and Kanje in Tsaragi district of Ifelodun and Edu local government areas of Kwara State on Thursday renewed their age-long land dispute which claimed three lives and left many others injured. It was learnt that no fewer than 20 people sustained injuries as the people clashed in the wee hours of Thursday. Daily Trust gathered that many houses and vehicles were torched in the violence that lasted hours over disagreement on clearing of land for the coming farming season. Some people in Share community claimed that their neighbours attacked them at the entry and exit points of the town. “The renewed attack on our community and travellers started early this morning. They’ve been attacking us from both entry and exit points of the town. “While I can’t confirm or deny any deaths for now, I am very sure many have sustained injuries,” a resident of Share said. But an indigene of Edu who spoke with our reporter said at least three people have so far been killed during the incident. “You know the Kanje community is in Tsaragi District of Edu Local Government. It has to do with a piece of land close to Kanje that the indigenes were clearing for the forthcoming farming season which the Share people claimed belonged to them that later degenerated to full-scale hostility. “At least, I can tell you that three people have been killed as it was a confrontation with guns and other dangerous weapons. It’s the people of Kanje that suffered the brunt mostly with their houses, cars and properties burnt and destroyed,” he added. Confirming the development, the spokesman of the state police command, Ajayi Okasanmi said, “We received information and immediately deployed our men there. We’ve restored normalcy as I am speaking with you.” Also, in a statement by the Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, Mallam Rafiu Ajakaye, on Thursday, the state government said it has taken steps to maintain peace among Tsaragi/Share communities. Ajakaye said security agencies have been deployed and are doing a good job. 