National Vice Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the South-South Zone, Chief Dan Orbih, has said the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has no candidate worthy of winning the 2023 presidential election. Orbih, who spoke to newsmen in Benin, the Edo State capital, on Sunday, said this was more evident since the ruling party has allegedly been looking outside of its fold for a worthy candidate to represent it the 2023 presidential election. Chief Orbih was reacting to a story making the rounds that former President Goodluck Jonathan was being wooed to contest the Presidential election under the APC. The APC has come under a lot of criticisms of late over its performance at the centre, with many Nigerians arguing that it is a mistake to have let the party take over the reins of power. The worsening security situation in many parts of the country, occasioned by terrorist acts, banditry and kidnappings, has left many Nigerians unsure of their safety. Orbih said shopping for a presidential candidate by a ruling political party in an opposition party is a public admittance that the party has not found any person worthy of running for that position within their ranks. He said the 2023 presidential election would be a very serious, hence the ruling party has started shopping for a presidential candidate from the PDP, “because they have no presidential material”, a situation that has been compounded by the apparent failure of the APC federal government to deliver on its electoral promises to the people.” He added that this was why the PDP as a party was very formidable with other political parties shopping for candidates from the party. “So I am not surprised that they are looking for people in the PDP to come and contest the presidential ticket in their party. “It shows clearly that they are aware that in their party, they don’t have anybody that can win the next presidential election.” The South South PDP leader also faulted those criticising Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers for saying he would not support Jonathan if he decides to pursue his political ambition in APC. According to him, it will be unfair to expect a loyal PDP member to go and vote for a candidate in another party. “That will amount to anti-party activities”, Orbih said.