The All Progressives Congress (APC) has urged the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and governors elected on its platform to show bi-partisanship in supporting all the sectoral reforms being initiated by President Muhammadu Buhari. The PDP in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan on Friday, described the APC as a community of people with selfish interest who allegedly manipulated the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the security agencies to win the 2019 general elections. The party also asked President Buhari to reform democratic institutions in the country and the nation’s electoral system in the interest of the masses. But Secretary of the APC Caretaker Committee, Sen. John J. Akpan Udoedehe in a statement on Saturday said politics should not be allowed to overshadow policies. “The statements by the PDP are merely designed to gain political mileage and only reinforces the disinformation on all issues, which the PDP constantly and laboriously pursues at all times. The positions taken by PDP governors against these institutional reforms are in the public domain. “The APC has contested elections; won some, lost some without splitting hairs. In fact, at some point the APC lost over 5 states to the PDP, yet we allowed democracy to prevail. We have remained resolute in our belief that in every electoral contest, popular will must prevail. “This is a far-cry from the days of the do-or-die politics of PDP, where civilians took control of the security apparatus to subvert the people’s will and determine the outcome of elections. “Electoral reform is a core plank of the programs of the APC-led administration and a legacy that Mr. President has promised to bequeath to Nigerians,” the party said. The All Progressives Congress (APC) has urged the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and governors elected on its platform to show bi-partisanship in supporting all the sectoral reforms being initiated by President Muhammadu Buhari. The PDP in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan on Friday, described the APC as a community of people with selfish interest who allegedly manipulated the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the security agencies to win the 2019 general elections. The party also asked President Buhari to reform democratic institutions in the country and the nation’s electoral system in the interest of the masses. But Secretary of the APC Caretaker Committee, Sen. John J. Akpan Udoedehe in a statement on Saturday said politics should not be allowed to overshadow policies. “The statements by the PDP are merely designed to gain political mileage and only reinforces the disinformation on all issues, which the PDP constantly and laboriously pursues at all times. The positions taken by PDP governors against these institutional reforms are in the public domain. “The APC has contested elections; won some, lost some without splitting hairs. In fact, at some point the APC lost over 5 states to the PDP, yet we allowed democracy to prevail. We have remained resolute in our belief that in every electoral contest, popular will must prevail. “This is a far-cry from the days of the do-or-die politics of PDP, where civilians took control of the security apparatus to subvert the people’s will and determine the outcome of elections. “Electoral reform is a core plank of the programs of the APC-led administration and a legacy that Mr. President has promised to bequeath to Nigerians,” the party said.