For decades, the Toyota Hilux has proven to be one of the most trusted and reliable automobiles in the pick-up segment. This is a reputation it has earned from the first to the eighth generation of the all-new-Toyota Hilux. And with the 2021 Hilux which it dubbed Invincible, it has even proven more reliable with more astonishing features, upgrades and more improved technology. As new technologies continue to evolve, automotive firms spice up their offerings to meet the demands of customers. The 2021 Toyota Hilux has been described as a perfect fit for an optimal work/life balance with the numerous changes. The suspension has been modified to create more dynamic on-road performance and a new 2.8-litre engine is now available. Equipment specifications have also been upgraded to keep pace with connectivity, entertainment and safety, while new external styling revisions enhance its presence. More significantly the multimedia upgrade is superbly rich and made the 2021 Hilux truly invincible. All new Hilux models from Icon grade upwards are equipped with the latest Toyota Touch 2 multimedia system, which features upgraded software to improve its alert system. On the flagship Invincible X grade (as above), the functionality includes satellite navigation. Smartphone integration through Apple CarPlay or Android Auto is another new feature and provided as standard from Icon grade upwards. The richness of the Hilux Invincible X’s on-board infotainment extends to a powerful nine-speaker JBL Premium Sound audio system, with an eight-channel amp, 244mm subwoofer and Clari-Fi technology to optimise the quality of compressed digital audio files. Different choices of body Customers can choose the Hilux body style that best suits their needs. These include Single Cab for a focus on work; Extra Cab, when occasional extra seating is needed; and Double Cab which has five-seat, four-door convenience, generous deck space and formidable all-wheel-drive performance. Also, active grade can be specified in all body styles, while Icon, Invincible and Invincible X are only available in Double Cab format. The new 201bhp 2.8-litre engine (above) is an option on Invincible and Invincible X models only. The new Hilux similarly comes with different grades comprising Active, Icon, Invincible and Invincible X. Active The active grade is designed and specified primarily with work duties in mind. It offers 17-inch steel wheels, a rear differential lock and easy-care PVC upholstery on Single Cab and Extra Cab models. Other standard specifications include air conditioning, automatic headlights, radio and CD player, Bluetooth connectivity and a USB port. Toyota Safety Sense is also provided, which features a Pre-Collision System (PCS), Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC), Lane Departure Alert and Road Sign Assist (LDA-RSA). Icon This introduces new 17-inch alloy wheels, LED front fog lights, side steps, privacy glass, fabric upholstery, a reversing camera and power folding door mirrors. New features include the Toyota Touch 2 multimedia and smartphone integration (as above), DAB radio and an automatic limited-slip differential. The Invincible grade builds on its current specification with front and rear parking sensors, LED rear lights, new 18-inch alloy wheels, heated front seats and windscreen wiper de-icer. Other key items include LED headlights, smart entry, push-button start and automatic air conditioning. Invincible X This grade comes with a body moulded in an exclusive front bumper and tailgate handle. In the cabin, there is new ambient door panel lighting and a nine-speaker JBL premium audio system, in addition to dual-tone leather upholstery, heated front seats and power driver’s seat adjustment.  For decades, the Toyota Hilux has proven to be one of the most trusted and reliable automobiles in the pick-up segment. This is a reputation it has earned from the first to the eighth generation of the all-new-Toyota Hilux. And with the 2021 Hilux which it dubbed Invincible, it has even proven more reliable with more astonishing features, upgrades and more improved technology. As new technologies continue to evolve, automotive firms spice up their offerings to meet the demands of customers. The 2021 Toyota Hilux has been described as a perfect fit for an optimal work/life balance with the numerous changes. The suspension has been modified to create more dynamic on-road performance and a new 2.8-litre engine is now available. Equipment specifications have also been upgraded to keep pace with connectivity, entertainment and safety, while new external styling revisions enhance its presence. More significantly the multimedia upgrade is superbly rich and made the 2021 Hilux truly invincible. All new Hilux models from Icon grade upwards are equipped with the latest Toyota Touch 2 multimedia system, which features upgraded software to improve its alert system. On the flagship Invincible X grade (as above), the functionality includes satellite navigation. Smartphone integration through Apple CarPlay or Android Auto is another new feature and provided as standard from Icon grade upwards. The richness of the Hilux Invincible X’s on-board infotainment extends to a powerful nine-speaker JBL Premium Sound audio system, with an eight-channel amp, 244mm subwoofer and Clari-Fi technology to optimise the quality of compressed digital audio files. Different choices of body Customers can choose the Hilux body style that best suits their needs. These include Single Cab for a focus on work; Extra Cab, when occasional extra seating is needed; and Double Cab which has five-seat, four-door convenience, generous deck space and formidable all-wheel-drive performance. Also, active grade can be specified in all body styles, while Icon, Invincible and Invincible X are only available in Double Cab format. The new 201bhp 2.8-litre engine (above) is an option on Invincible and Invincible X models only. The new Hilux similarly comes with different grades comprising Active, Icon, Invincible and Invincible X. Active The active grade is designed and specified primarily with work duties in mind. It offers 17-inch steel wheels, a rear differential lock and easy-care PVC upholstery on Single Cab and Extra Cab models. Other standard specifications include air conditioning, automatic headlights, radio and CD player, Bluetooth connectivity and a USB port. Toyota Safety Sense is also provided, which features a Pre-Collision System (PCS), Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC), Lane Departure Alert and Road Sign Assist (LDA-RSA). Icon This introduces new 17-inch alloy wheels, LED front fog lights, side steps, privacy glass, fabric upholstery, a reversing camera and power folding door mirrors. New features include the Toyota Touch 2 multimedia and smartphone integration (as above), DAB radio and an automatic limited-slip differential. The Invincible grade builds on its current specification with front and rear parking sensors, LED rear lights, new 18-inch alloy wheels, heated front seats and windscreen wiper de-icer. Other key items include LED headlights, smart entry, push-button start and automatic air conditioning. Invincible X This grade comes with a body moulded in an exclusive front bumper and tailgate handle. In the cabin, there is new ambient door panel lighting and a nine-speaker JBL premium audio system, in addition to dual-tone leather upholstery, heated front seats and power driver’s seat adjustment. 