The Glitz Fair has in the last four years created opportunities for about 400 business start-up founders to showcase their potential in Kano State, the Project Director and Founder of the fair, Ahmad Adam has said. At the end of the 7th edition of the fair in Kano, Adam said over 5,000 people have patronised the vendors during the editions with transactions worth N60 million. He also said through billboards, handbills, posters, electronic and online social media, the Glitz Fair and its partners’ brands have reached over 3m people. Adam said there are plans to open a Glitz Shop, a permanent site where the shop will take the responsibility of sales, managing and marketing the businesses that are situated in the mall. “This 7th edition of Glitz Fair tagged, The Rebound, was meant to provide hope for SMEs and other multinational companies to bounce back from the devastating economic effect of the COVID-19 pandemic. The event has an exhibition area, a kids’ playground and a VIP lounge. “The event was designed to be taking place three times in a year, with a specific time of training and business coaching to the SMEs and start-ups,” he said. The Glitz Fair has in the last four years created opportunities for about 400 business start-up founders to showcase their potential in Kano State, the Project Director and Founder of the fair, Ahmad Adam has said. At the end of the 7th edition of the fair in Kano, Adam said over 5,000 people have patronised the vendors during the editions with transactions worth N60 million. He also said through billboards, handbills, posters, electronic and online social media, the Glitz Fair and its partners’ brands have reached over 3m people. Adam said there are plans to open a Glitz Shop, a permanent site where the shop will take the responsibility of sales, managing and marketing the businesses that are situated in the mall. “This 7th edition of Glitz Fair tagged, The Rebound, was meant to provide hope for SMEs and other multinational companies to bounce back from the devastating economic effect of the COVID-19 pandemic. The event has an exhibition area, a kids’ playground and a VIP lounge. “The event was designed to be taking place three times in a year, with a specific time of training and business coaching to the SMEs and start-ups,” he said.