Former Chairman All Progress Congress, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, the National Vice Chairman South South, People’s Democratic Party, Chief Dan Orbih and former factional Chairman of the APC, Aslem Ojezua and State PDP chairman, Tony Azegbeimi, on Saturday reacted to the victory of Governor Godwin Obaseki at the Federal High Court, Abuja over certificate forgery. Justice Ahmed Mohammed in his judgement dismissed the certificate forgery suit filed against the governor by the APC due to the party’s inability to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. Speaking with Daily Trust, Chief John Oyegun, said Obaseki’s victory was not unexpected. “No need to comment. I hope they will now let the governor settle down to do his job” On his part, Chief Orbih said the Abuja judgement only reaffirmed the verdict of the people in the September 19, governorship election in Edo state. “Obaseki’s victory over the APC, at the Court validated the the will of Edo people as reflected in the poll.” Also speaking, Aslem Ojezua said the decision of the Court was not a surprise to him because he knew all along that Obaseki was qualified. “The judgement means that in a democratic setting the people’s will always prevail”. He called on Obaseki to remain focus and continue to deliver on his promises to the Edo people while ignoring any attempt to distract him. The State PDP chairman, Tony Azegbemi, commended the judiciary for standing with the truth, saying they have once again proved to be the hope of the common man. “I urge the APC not to appeal because Obaseki has a massive plan for the state and should not be distracted.” –Court’s verdict triumph for rule of law– Meanwhile, Governor Godwin Obaseki, had describedthe ruling of the Court as a triumph of the rule of law. The governor in a statement, said the judgement is a testament to the fact that truth would prevail ultimately no matter how vehemently detractors push lies in the face of incontrovertible evidence. “The verdict of the Federal High Court, delivered by Justice Ahmed Mohammed is well-received and a victory for the rule of law. It was a most needless attempt by desperate individuals trying to undo the will of the people through the backdoor but we are happy today that justice and truth have prevailed.” He noted that the verdict confirms once again that Edo people were well-guided in trusting him to lead them in the September 19th governorship election, He promised to continue to prioritise the development of the state not minding the darts thrown by those who are embittered by their loss and continue their attempt to put spanner in the works even when they have been roundly beaten on all fronts. “My profound gratitude goes to the judiciary who have stood indefatigably for truth and justice, the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari (GCFR); my party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP); our party leaders and members; my teeming supporters; the good people of Edo State and all Nigerians” he said. Former Chairman All Progress Congress, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, the National Vice Chairman South South, People’s Democratic Party, Chief Dan Orbih and former factional Chairman of the APC, Aslem Ojezua and State PDP chairman, Tony Azegbeimi, on Saturday reacted to the victory of Governor Godwin Obaseki at the Federal High Court, Abuja over certificate forgery. Justice Ahmed Mohammed in his judgement dismissed the certificate forgery suit filed against the governor by the APC due to the party’s inability to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. Speaking with Daily Trust, Chief John Oyegun, said Obaseki’s victory was not unexpected. “No need to comment. I hope they will now let the governor settle down to do his job” On his part, Chief Orbih said the Abuja judgement only reaffirmed the verdict of the people in the September 19, governorship election in Edo state. “Obaseki’s victory over the APC, at the Court validated the the will of Edo people as reflected in the poll.” Also speaking, Aslem Ojezua said the decision of the Court was not a surprise to him because he knew all along that Obaseki was qualified. “The judgement means that in a democratic setting the people’s will always prevail”. He called on Obaseki to remain focus and continue to deliver on his promises to the Edo people while ignoring any attempt to distract him. The State PDP chairman, Tony Azegbemi, commended the judiciary for standing with the truth, saying they have once again proved to be the hope of the common man. “I urge the APC not to appeal because Obaseki has a massive plan for the state and should not be distracted.” –Court’s verdict triumph for rule of law– Meanwhile, Governor Godwin Obaseki, had describedthe ruling of the Court as a triumph of the rule of law. The governor in a statement, said the judgement is a testament to the fact that truth would prevail ultimately no matter how vehemently detractors push lies in the face of incontrovertible evidence. “The verdict of the Federal High Court, delivered by Justice Ahmed Mohammed is well-received and a victory for the rule of law. It was a most needless attempt by desperate individuals trying to undo the will of the people through the backdoor but we are happy today that justice and truth have prevailed.” He noted that the verdict confirms once again that Edo people were well-guided in trusting him to lead them in the September 19th governorship election, He promised to continue to prioritise the development of the state not minding the darts thrown by those who are embittered by their loss and continue their attempt to put spanner in the works even when they have been roundly beaten on all fronts. “My profound gratitude goes to the judiciary who have stood indefatigably for truth and justice, the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari (GCFR); my party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP); our party leaders and members; my teeming supporters; the good people of Edo State and all Nigerians” he said.