The Edo State High Court has nullified the candidacy of the All Progressives Congress (APC) deputy governorship candidate, Audu Ganiyu Abudu, in the September 19 governorship election. Justice Courage Ogbebor delivered the judgment in a suit filed by Kadiri Oshoakhemhe No: B/358/20 against the APC deputy governorship candidate and two others. The court held that the APC deputy governorship aspirant, Ganiyu Abudu, presented false information to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in his Form EC9 to enable him to contest the September 19, 2020 governorship election in Edo State. The plaintiff had argued that the defendant presented false information to INEC in the form EC9 affidavit in support of personal particulars submitted to the commission for the purpose of contesting election into the office of deputy governor for Edo State. The plaintiff prayed the court to annul the candidacy of Osagie Ize-Iyamu as the APC candidate for governor on account of running with an unqualified candidate for deputy governor. In his ruling, Justice Ogbebor held that the APC deputy governorship candidate presented false information to INEC in his Form EC9 and nullified his candidacy. Meanwhile, the APC governorship candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, has described the judgement as “unfortunate and utterly wrong”. “I have already instructed my counsel to appeal against the judgement. “I am convinced that the Court of Appeal will dispassionately consider the facts presented before the court and arrive at a just decision in accordance with the law,” he said. He urged the party’s supporters to remain calm and law-abiding as justice will surely prevail in the matter “to the glory of our God”.  The Edo State High Court has nullified the candidacy of the All Progressives Congress (APC) deputy governorship candidate, Audu Ganiyu Abudu, in the September 19 governorship election. Justice Courage Ogbebor delivered the judgment in a suit filed by Kadiri Oshoakhemhe No: B/358/20 against the APC deputy governorship candidate and two others. The court held that the APC deputy governorship aspirant, Ganiyu Abudu, presented false information to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in his Form EC9 to enable him to contest the September 19, 2020 governorship election in Edo State. The plaintiff had argued that the defendant presented false information to INEC in the form EC9 affidavit in support of personal particulars submitted to the commission for the purpose of contesting election into the office of deputy governor for Edo State. The plaintiff prayed the court to annul the candidacy of Osagie Ize-Iyamu as the APC candidate for governor on account of running with an unqualified candidate for deputy governor. In his ruling, Justice Ogbebor held that the APC deputy governorship candidate presented false information to INEC in his Form EC9 and nullified his candidacy. Meanwhile, the APC governorship candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, has described the judgement as “unfortunate and utterly wrong”. “I have already instructed my counsel to appeal against the judgement. “I am convinced that the Court of Appeal will dispassionately consider the facts presented before the court and arrive at a just decision in accordance with the law,” he said. He urged the party’s supporters to remain calm and law-abiding as justice will surely prevail in the matter “to the glory of our God”. 