The Niger state government said it will soon be generating revenue from the Bobi grazing reserve which has commenced operation. It has available pasture to be sold to herders in the state and across the country. The reserve according to findings will generate N9 billion annually when it is properly put to use. The Leader of the Fulanis in the Bobi Grazing Reserve, Malam Ardo Abubakar said this during the visit of the state governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello and members of his cabinet to the reserve on Monday to ascertain the progress of work at the reserve. Abubakar said, “The project will empower 9,000 people and has the ability to generate N9 billion yearly. He stated that the project will help the herders have healthy cows that will give them more milk and meat and also enrich them while generating revenue for the state government. Speaking to journalists at the end of inspection of the work on the reserve, Bello explained that the available pasture at the reserve can conveniently feed 9000 cows while they have little to be fed in the reserve. The grazing reserve which is located in Mariga/ Mashegu Local Government areas of the state which covers over 34,000 hectares of land will contribute to the revenue base of the state when it is fully utilized. According to Bello, “We can start making money from the pasture here. We have too much pasture available now. The pasture we have now will be able to feed 9000 cows and in the grazing reserve, we do not have up to 2000 cows yet. “This means we have more than enough pasture and going forward in the scheme, we will be selling off the excess pasture to any part of the country and the world.” The Governor further said that mechanisms are being put in place to improve the capacity of the cows to give 1000 litres of milk daily from the current quantity the herders get. The Niger state government said it will soon be generating revenue from the Bobi grazing reserve which has commenced operation. It has available pasture to be sold to herders in the state and across the country. The reserve according to findings will generate N9 billion annually when it is properly put to use. The Leader of the Fulanis in the Bobi Grazing Reserve, Malam Ardo Abubakar said this during the visit of the state governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello and members of his cabinet to the reserve on Monday to ascertain the progress of work at the reserve. Abubakar said, “The project will empower 9,000 people and has the ability to generate N9 billion yearly. He stated that the project will help the herders have healthy cows that will give them more milk and meat and also enrich them while generating revenue for the state government. Speaking to journalists at the end of inspection of the work on the reserve, Bello explained that the available pasture at the reserve can conveniently feed 9000 cows while they have little to be fed in the reserve. The grazing reserve which is located in Mariga/ Mashegu Local Government areas of the state which covers over 34,000 hectares of land will contribute to the revenue base of the state when it is fully utilized. According to Bello, “We can start making money from the pasture here. We have too much pasture available now. The pasture we have now will be able to feed 9000 cows and in the grazing reserve, we do not have up to 2000 cows yet. “This means we have more than enough pasture and going forward in the scheme, we will be selling off the excess pasture to any part of the country and the world.” The Governor further said that mechanisms are being put in place to improve the capacity of the cows to give 1000 litres of milk daily from the current quantity the herders get.