The Police in Ondo have arrested an apprentice, identified as Bosede Temitọpẹ Adeniyi who allegedly disappeared with her master’s three months old baby at a tailoring shop in Oke-Bola area of Ondo town, in Ondo state on Saturday January 2nd 2020. The apprentice introduced to her master Mrs Stella Babatunde Mamukuyomi by her own husband, Mr Wasiu Jimoh Mamukuyomi was also said to have disappeared with her ATM card. Mrs Mamukuyomi said her husband brought the lady to her as an apprentice some weeks before the incident last Saturday . She noted that her husband, Wasiu Jimoh Mamukuyomi lied to her that the lady was his friend’s wife, which she later discovered was untrue. She said, “my husband brought the lady to me on the 3rd of December, 2020 to train her in tailoring”. “On Saturday, 2nd of January, 2021, the lady came to the shop as usual. After bathing the baby girl that afternoon, she took permission from me to put the baby on her back. “I later gave her my ATM card to help me withdraw N3,000 that was transferred to my account by a customer at a nearby POS stand. “But she never returned, as she escaped with the new born baby and my ATM card”. She also said that after her disappearance she called her husband severally to inform him about the incident, but he did not pick her calls. She said when he returned from work, he was almost attacked by irate mob. While explaining more, Stella said, “my husband was later taken to Ẹnuọwa police station in Ondo, where he confessed that the lady in question was his girlfriend”. “He also confessed that he was the one who rented a room apartment for her at Eweje area of Yaba, Ondo, but denied knowing anything about the disappearance of the child. Ondo police command spokesman, Tee Leo Ikoro however ever told Daily Trust that police have arrested the husband, the apprentice and her husband adding that they are in their custody. He said the suspects would be paraded soon. The Police in Ondo have arrested an apprentice, identified as Bosede Temitọpẹ Adeniyi who allegedly disappeared with her master’s three months old baby at a tailoring shop in Oke-Bola area of Ondo town, in Ondo state on Saturday January 2nd 2020. The apprentice introduced to her master Mrs Stella Babatunde Mamukuyomi by her own husband, Mr Wasiu Jimoh Mamukuyomi was also said to have disappeared with her ATM card. Mrs Mamukuyomi said her husband brought the lady to her as an apprentice some weeks before the incident last Saturday . She noted that her husband, Wasiu Jimoh Mamukuyomi lied to her that the lady was his friend’s wife, which she later discovered was untrue. She said, “my husband brought the lady to me on the 3rd of December, 2020 to train her in tailoring”. “On Saturday, 2nd of January, 2021, the lady came to the shop as usual. After bathing the baby girl that afternoon, she took permission from me to put the baby on her back. “I later gave her my ATM card to help me withdraw N3,000 that was transferred to my account by a customer at a nearby POS stand. “But she never returned, as she escaped with the new born baby and my ATM card”. She also said that after her disappearance she called her husband severally to inform him about the incident, but he did not pick her calls. She said when he returned from work, he was almost attacked by irate mob. While explaining more, Stella said, “my husband was later taken to Ẹnuọwa police station in Ondo, where he confessed that the lady in question was his girlfriend”. “He also confessed that he was the one who rented a room apartment for her at Eweje area of Yaba, Ondo, but denied knowing anything about the disappearance of the child. Ondo police command spokesman, Tee Leo Ikoro however ever told Daily Trust that police have arrested the husband, the apprentice and her husband adding that they are in their custody. He said the suspects would be paraded soon.