The founder of Gregory University Uturu, Professor Gregory Ibe, has called on Ndi Igbo to jettison the agitation for Igbo presidency in 2023 and strive for the creation of additional for the South East geo-political zone. He said the creation of a new state would create avenue for more Igbo senators as well as additional members of the House of Representatives and State House of Assembly. The don said that development also meant more jobs for the unemployed youths and more funds for the development of local government areas. He said: “These are things that will have a direct impact on the lives of Ndi Igbo rather than agitating for Igbo presidency in 2023.” Professor Ibe, who disclosed that he made personal efforts before the 2019 general elections and briefed President Muhammadu Buhari on the need for equalization of states, a request he said the president graciously agreed to. He said the president asked him to schedule a meeting between himself and some Igbo leaders but regrettably his name was removed from the list of the delegation. “After they returned from the meeting with Mr President, they set up a strategic committee to select a new state. I quickly reminded them that in the 2014 confab, issues on state creation and the name of the state were discussed and I told them it’s either Etiti State or nothing else. “I wrote to the president and told him of Etiti State, that was what happened before 2019 general elections,” he added. Prof Ibe said the agitation for the creation of Etiti State can still bounce back if Ndi Igbo decided to jettison the agitation for Igbo presidency and fight for the creation of an additional state for the South East. “It’s more rewarding to Ndi Igbo to get additional state than Igbo presidency because we will have more Igbo senators, more jobs, more development in Igbo land. “The president can pick his successor from any geo-political zone but let him give us additional state, the whole South South states belong to one party, while in the South East, APC, PDP have two states each. It is difficult to speak with one voice and get federal government’s attention,” he added.  The founder of Gregory University Uturu, Professor Gregory Ibe, has called on Ndi Igbo to jettison the agitation for Igbo presidency in 2023 and strive for the creation of additional for the South East geo-political zone. He said the creation of a new state would create avenue for more Igbo senators as well as additional members of the House of Representatives and State House of Assembly. The don said that development also meant more jobs for the unemployed youths and more funds for the development of local government areas. He said: “These are things that will have a direct impact on the lives of Ndi Igbo rather than agitating for Igbo presidency in 2023.” Professor Ibe, who disclosed that he made personal efforts before the 2019 general elections and briefed President Muhammadu Buhari on the need for equalization of states, a request he said the president graciously agreed to. He said the president asked him to schedule a meeting between himself and some Igbo leaders but regrettably his name was removed from the list of the delegation. “After they returned from the meeting with Mr President, they set up a strategic committee to select a new state. I quickly reminded them that in the 2014 confab, issues on state creation and the name of the state were discussed and I told them it’s either Etiti State or nothing else. “I wrote to the president and told him of Etiti State, that was what happened before 2019 general elections,” he added. Prof Ibe said the agitation for the creation of Etiti State can still bounce back if Ndi Igbo decided to jettison the agitation for Igbo presidency and fight for the creation of an additional state for the South East. “It’s more rewarding to Ndi Igbo to get additional state than Igbo presidency because we will have more Igbo senators, more jobs, more development in Igbo land. “The president can pick his successor from any geo-political zone but let him give us additional state, the whole South South states belong to one party, while in the South East, APC, PDP have two states each. It is difficult to speak with one voice and get federal government’s attention,” he added. 