As the African Continental Free Trade Areas Agreement (AfCFTA) among the 54 participating countries commences today, January 1, 2021, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has insisted that it will sustain its foreign exchange (forex) restriction for 42 import items it had prohibited earlier. The commencement of the pact is coming barely two weeks after the federal government reopened the land borders shut for over one year. The AfCTA agreement allows participating countries to trade about 90 per cent of goods without any duty payment. However, each African country reserves the right to restrict importation of 10 per cent of goods that it has local capacity to produce. Speaking on this yesterday when contacted by Daily Trust, a Deputy Director in the Corporate Affairs Department of CBN, Dr. Isah Abdulmumin, said the forex restrictions regime still subsist even though those items can be imported. Dr. Isah said: “Forex restriction does not mean banning those items. The responsibility for banning or exclusion from importation lies with the fiscal authority, what I can confirm to you is that the restrictions have not been reviewed.” The items denied forex by CBN include fertilizer, rice, cement, poultry, meat, palm oil/vegetable oil, among others. Initial hurdles around trade pact The promoters, solely member countries of the African Union (AU) believe that AfCFTA will remove hurdles and obstacles militating against free flow of goods and services in the continent. When fully operational, it is expected that the intra-African trade would increase by over 50 per cent as it currently accounts for less than 20 per cent of exports in Africa, compared with about 60 per cent in Asia and 70 per cent in Europe. The Federal Government of Nigeria became a signatory to the AfCFTA in July, 2020, after a one year delay. The President Buhari-led administration had expressed initial reservations about signing the pact. However, a panel was set up by Nigeria in March, 2020 to appraise the situation and endorsed processes for the country to join in the pact. President of the Dangote Group, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, and the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), among other major players had raised concerns regarding the AfCFTA, because while Nigeria is a viable business option for growth for Africa, other African countries could be hostile business environments for Nigerian goods to thrive. There are also concerns that some countries might collude with Western and Asian countries to smuggle in foreign goods and disguise them as African made, thereby eroding the objectives of AfCFTA. Another concern from economic experts is that  some African countries could ship those items to Nigeria at cheaper cost and might be at an advantage if Nigerian local producers are not competitive. This could happen at a time when the Lagos ports access road gridlock has continued with over 500 containers of raw materials trapped. The cost of moving containers by trucks from the ports to other parts of Lagos has also risen by over 300 per cent due to the congestion. Nigeria leads in new $3.4trn market The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo, has called on Nigerians, particularly industrialists to take advantage of the inherent opportunities to promote Made-in-Nigeria goods. In a statement by his Special Assistant on Media , Ifedayo Sayo, the Minister said Nigeria cannot afford to be left out of the emerging African economic block, stressing that AfCTA will form a $3.4 trillion dollars economic bloc, which Nigeria must play a leading role. The Secretary, National Action Committee on AfCFTA, Francis Anatogu said the Federal Government has done the groundwork for the take-off of the pact on January 1, 2021. Reactions trail operation of trade pact Major entrepreneurs, operators and analysts have expressed mixed reactions as the African trade pact becomes operationalized. Mr. David Akwu, an economist in Enugu said whilst the forex restrictions could spur local capacities in those 42 items, if the cost of production of the same items are still high, the products wouldn’t be competitive in a AfCFTA regime. He also said with local farmers facing insecurity during harvest, food export is threatened. “So I’m really wondering how competitive we can be in food exports in the face of AfCFTA.” The executive director of the Centre for China Studies and international affairs analyst, Charles Onunaiju, said the AfCTA is a huge incentive for investors to flood Africa. “If I have to spend 40 percent to generate power in Nigeria and have 20 percent to generate power in South Africa and Rwanda, why do I come to Nigeria when I can produce in South Africa, Rwanda and still sell in Nigeria?” However, the Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI) has lauded the take-off of the trade pact.  In a statement signed by the Chamber’s President, Alhaji Al-Mujtaba Abubakar, said the implementation today marked a new dawn in Africa’s drive towards economic integration. More so, the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has welcomed the pact operationalization. Its Director General Dr. Muda Yusuf, said: “The AfCFTA is a good dream, especially in the light of the numerous benefits of a larger market.” “A liberal trade regime within the continent poses a major risk to the Nigeria manufacturing sector. Nigerian industrialists, especially those in the SME segment, are highly vulnerable because of their weak competitiveness.” On the strengths, Dr. Yusuf said the Nigeria service sector is relatively more competitive and would gain much more from the trade deal. “Already our financial services, entertainment, fashion, distributive trade, e-commerce, ICT, and Telecoms have a strong presence in many countries on the continent.” On his part, the Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), Barr. Hassan Bello, said: “It will enable investors to benefit not only from the Nigerian market but from other countries on the continent as well. It will afford producers and retailers the opportunity to expand their frontier to other markets.” But Vice President of the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), Dr. Kayode Farinto, berated the National Action Committee on the Implementation of AfCFTA for doing a poor job of sensitising stakeholders in the Nigerian maritime and transportation sector. But the Managing Director of Aero Contractors, Capt. Ado Sanusi, said he was not too convinced that the region is ready for the initiative because of the difficulty in getting visas to most African countries. “I am not too convinced that we are well prepared for this because the countries are still not giving visas on arrival,” he said. A restriction to the full gains of the trade pact may be the hindrance of free movement in all African countries. But Nigeria has pushed for the ratification of protocol on free movement of people. Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo recently said the success of the ACFTA will require a faster ratification of protocol on free movement of persons. As the African Continental Free Trade Areas Agreement (AfCFTA) among the 54 participating countries commences today, January 1, 2021, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has insisted that it will sustain its foreign exchange (forex) restriction for 42 import items it had prohibited earlier. The commencement of the pact is coming barely two weeks after the federal government reopened the land borders shut for over one year. The AfCTA agreement allows participating countries to trade about 90 per cent of goods without any duty payment. However, each African country reserves the right to restrict importation of 10 per cent of goods that it has local capacity to produce. Speaking on this yesterday when contacted by Daily Trust, a Deputy Director in the Corporate Affairs Department of CBN, Dr. Isah Abdulmumin, said the forex restrictions regime still subsist even though those items can be imported. Dr. Isah said: “Forex restriction does not mean banning those items. The responsibility for banning or exclusion from importation lies with the fiscal authority, what I can confirm to you is that the restrictions have not been reviewed.” The items denied forex by CBN include fertilizer, rice, cement, poultry, meat, palm oil/vegetable oil, among others. Initial hurdles around trade pact The promoters, solely member countries of the African Union (AU) believe that AfCFTA will remove hurdles and obstacles militating against free flow of goods and services in the continent. When fully operational, it is expected that the intra-African trade would increase by over 50 per cent as it currently accounts for less than 20 per cent of exports in Africa, compared with about 60 per cent in Asia and 70 per cent in Europe. The Federal Government of Nigeria became a signatory to the AfCFTA in July, 2020, after a one year delay. The President Buhari-led administration had expressed initial reservations about signing the pact. However, a panel was set up by Nigeria in March, 2020 to appraise the situation and endorsed processes for the country to join in the pact. President of the Dangote Group, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, and the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), among other major players had raised concerns regarding the AfCFTA, because while Nigeria is a viable business option for growth for Africa, other African countries could be hostile business environments for Nigerian goods to thrive. There are also concerns that some countries might collude with Western and Asian countries to smuggle in foreign goods and disguise them as African made, thereby eroding the objectives of AfCFTA. Another concern from economic experts is that  some African countries could ship those items to Nigeria at cheaper cost and might be at an advantage if Nigerian local producers are not competitive. This could happen at a time when the Lagos ports access road gridlock has continued with over 500 containers of raw materials trapped. The cost of moving containers by trucks from the ports to other parts of Lagos has also risen by over 300 per cent due to the congestion. Nigeria leads in new $3.4trn market The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo, has called on Nigerians, particularly industrialists to take advantage of the inherent opportunities to promote Made-in-Nigeria goods. In a statement by his Special Assistant on Media , Ifedayo Sayo, the Minister said Nigeria cannot afford to be left out of the emerging African economic block, stressing that AfCTA will form a $3.4 trillion dollars economic bloc, which Nigeria must play a leading role. The Secretary, National Action Committee on AfCFTA, Francis Anatogu said the Federal Government has done the groundwork for the take-off of the pact on January 1, 2021. Reactions trail operation of trade pact Major entrepreneurs, operators and analysts have expressed mixed reactions as the African trade pact becomes operationalized. Mr. David Akwu, an economist in Enugu said whilst the forex restrictions could spur local capacities in those 42 items, if the cost of production of the same items are still high, the products wouldn’t be competitive in a AfCFTA regime. He also said with local farmers facing insecurity during harvest, food export is threatened. “So I’m really wondering how competitive we can be in food exports in the face of AfCFTA.” The executive director of the Centre for China Studies and international affairs analyst, Charles Onunaiju, said the AfCTA is a huge incentive for investors to flood Africa. “If I have to spend 40 percent to generate power in Nigeria and have 20 percent to generate power in South Africa and Rwanda, why do I come to Nigeria when I can produce in South Africa, Rwanda and still sell in Nigeria?” However, the Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI) has lauded the take-off of the trade pact.  In a statement signed by the Chamber’s President, Alhaji Al-Mujtaba Abubakar, said the implementation today marked a new dawn in Africa’s drive towards economic integration. More so, the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has welcomed the pact operationalization. Its Director General Dr. Muda Yusuf, said: “The AfCFTA is a good dream, especially in the light of the numerous benefits of a larger market.” “A liberal trade regime within the continent poses a major risk to the Nigeria manufacturing sector. Nigerian industrialists, especially those in the SME segment, are highly vulnerable because of their weak competitiveness.” On the strengths, Dr. Yusuf said the Nigeria service sector is relatively more competitive and would gain much more from the trade deal. “Already our financial services, entertainment, fashion, distributive trade, e-commerce, ICT, and Telecoms have a strong presence in many countries on the continent.” On his part, the Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), Barr. Hassan Bello, said: “It will enable investors to benefit not only from the Nigerian market but from other countries on the continent as well. It will afford producers and retailers the opportunity to expand their frontier to other markets.” But Vice President of the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), Dr. Kayode Farinto, berated the National Action Committee on the Implementation of AfCFTA for doing a poor job of sensitising stakeholders in the Nigerian maritime and transportation sector. But the Managing Director of Aero Contractors, Capt. Ado Sanusi, said he was not too convinced that the region is ready for the initiative because of the difficulty in getting visas to most African countries. “I am not too convinced that we are well prepared for this because the countries are still not giving visas on arrival,” he said. A restriction to the full gains of the trade pact may be the hindrance of free movement in all African countries. But Nigeria has pushed for the ratification of protocol on free movement of people. Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo recently said the success of the ACFTA will require a faster ratification of protocol on free movement of persons.