Ogun State Government has launched Mobile Advertising Sticker Permit for branded motors, and trucks, effective from this month. The permit was launched by the State Signage And Advertising Agency (OGSAA) in partnership with the Penthouse Media in Abeokuta, the state capital. Speaking at the launch, the General Manager of OGSAA, Fola Onifade said the permit is mandatory for all branded vehicles in the state. Onifade explained that that the road permit was introduced by the Agency in order to create another means of revenue generation for the state. He noted that the development was a welcome idea in an era when the state clamours for increased Internally Generated Revenue (IGR). Onifade, however, threatened showdown with counterfeiters who would want to exploit motorists by creating fake permit to swindle owners of vehicles in the state. He said “the major key officials of the agency who will be going out to go against the people who might want to counterfeit. “But the rule is that you commit the crime you face the music . We. Are not going to spare anybody . The government is clear about this, go ahead and counterfeit, we will make sure we get you and once you get we will prosecute you ” On his part, the Chief Executive Officer of the Penthouse Media, Ayo Osipitan allayed fears that the permit would amount to double taxation for motorists in the state. Ogun State Government has launched Mobile Advertising Sticker Permit for branded motors, and trucks, effective from this month. The permit was launched by the State Signage And Advertising Agency (OGSAA) in partnership with the Penthouse Media in Abeokuta, the state capital. Speaking at the launch, the General Manager of OGSAA, Fola Onifade said the permit is mandatory for all branded vehicles in the state. Onifade explained that that the road permit was introduced by the Agency in order to create another means of revenue generation for the state. He noted that the development was a welcome idea in an era when the state clamours for increased Internally Generated Revenue (IGR). Onifade, however, threatened showdown with counterfeiters who would want to exploit motorists by creating fake permit to swindle owners of vehicles in the state. He said “the major key officials of the agency who will be going out to go against the people who might want to counterfeit. “But the rule is that you commit the crime you face the music . We. Are not going to spare anybody . The government is clear about this, go ahead and counterfeit, we will make sure we get you and once you get we will prosecute you ” On his part, the Chief Executive Officer of the Penthouse Media, Ayo Osipitan allayed fears that the permit would amount to double taxation for motorists in the state.