The Federal Executive Council (FEC) should be reconstituted because most of its members who ought to have helped in addressing public concerns are disconnected from their localities, the Chairman Senate Committee on Army, Senator Ali Ndume (APC Borno South) has said. Ndume made the assertion at a media conference in Maiduguri, saying there was widespread distrust for the government as a result of the disconnect. He said: “The problem is the disconnect between the people in government who will assist the president to get most programmes done from the public. Since the inception of this country, no government has rolled out programmes for the youth like that of President Muhammadu Buhari. N500 billion was approved for programmes including the N-Power, and the kleptocrats in the government have frustrated the process but that is not Mr President. “Another N75 billion was released for youth investment fund. And the 774 project was introduced but some people have not been able to implement it because of interest. “Mr President should look at his cabinet especially the FEC; there are people that are not connected with the people, ministers who do not know anybody in their local government areas. FEC should be reconstituted and people connected with the grassroots should be brought. “During the #EndSARS protests, ministers were asked to go and talk to their people but some could not,” he said. Speaking on counterinsurgency operations, Ndume said troops lacked what they needed in the previous years but that their allocation in the 2021 budget had been increased. He said the funds for capital expenditure for the army had been approved and would be released to enable the procurement of counterinsurgency equipment. “The army will be given the money that would have been shut down by January. The capital allocation shall run concurrently with the budget that was signed, up to the end of March,” he said. He said the money needed to motivate personnel on ground was also provided. “The personnel and recurrent expenditure of the army this year is over N500 billion. “Last year, the budget for Operation Lafiya Dole was N75 billion but this year because they complained of lack of funds, we approved N100 billion and that was signed by Mr President,” he added. Sen. Ndume said the number of recruits was increased from between four and six thousand to eight thousand who were being trained in Zaria and Falgore.  The Federal Executive Council (FEC) should be reconstituted because most of its members who ought to have helped in addressing public concerns are disconnected from their localities, the Chairman Senate Committee on Army, Senator Ali Ndume (APC Borno South) has said. Ndume made the assertion at a media conference in Maiduguri, saying there was widespread distrust for the government as a result of the disconnect. He said: “The problem is the disconnect between the people in government who will assist the president to get most programmes done from the public. Since the inception of this country, no government has rolled out programmes for the youth like that of President Muhammadu Buhari. N500 billion was approved for programmes including the N-Power, and the kleptocrats in the government have frustrated the process but that is not Mr President. “Another N75 billion was released for youth investment fund. And the 774 project was introduced but some people have not been able to implement it because of interest. “Mr President should look at his cabinet especially the FEC; there are people that are not connected with the people, ministers who do not know anybody in their local government areas. FEC should be reconstituted and people connected with the grassroots should be brought. “During the #EndSARS protests, ministers were asked to go and talk to their people but some could not,” he said. Speaking on counterinsurgency operations, Ndume said troops lacked what they needed in the previous years but that their allocation in the 2021 budget had been increased. He said the funds for capital expenditure for the army had been approved and would be released to enable the procurement of counterinsurgency equipment. “The army will be given the money that would have been shut down by January. The capital allocation shall run concurrently with the budget that was signed, up to the end of March,” he said. He said the money needed to motivate personnel on ground was also provided. “The personnel and recurrent expenditure of the army this year is over N500 billion. “Last year, the budget for Operation Lafiya Dole was N75 billion but this year because they complained of lack of funds, we approved N100 billion and that was signed by Mr President,” he added. Sen. Ndume said the number of recruits was increased from between four and six thousand to eight thousand who were being trained in Zaria and Falgore. 