The posters of a former governor of Ekiti State, Engr. Segun Oni, have flooded strategic locations in Ado Ekiti, the state capital and other towns. The posters with the logo of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) carried a bold inscription of ‘Segun Oni for Governor, the Reformation has Come’. They were pasted in conspicuous places in Ado Ekiti area of Ajilosun, Basiri, Ijigbo, Ilawe Road, Okeyinmi, and other towns like Ikere Ekiti , Ifaki and other communities across the 16 local government areas. The last governorship election was conducted on July 14, 2018. Oni was the governor of Ekiti between May 29, 2007 and October 15, 2010, before he was sacked in a judgement delivered by former President of Appeal Court, Justice Ayo Isa Salami in a case instituted by Kayode Fayemi of the defunct Action Congress. Oni defected to the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2014 to support Fayemi’s second term ambition, where he held a position of Deputy National Chairman (South). He contested the 2018 APC governorship primary where he garnered a total of 482 votes to emerge as a runner-up to Fayemi who clinched the ticket. The former governor returned to PDP in 2020 over an alleged maltreatment of his loyalists in APC. Commenting on the posters, Dr Bayo Arowolaju, a former Special Adviser to Oni during his time as governor and member of the media team of his political platform named ‘Atunse Ekiti’, said they must have emanated from those agitating for the return of his former boss as governor. Arowolaju added that the pressure on his former boss to return as a governor had been intense in the last one year.  The posters of a former governor of Ekiti State, Engr. Segun Oni, have flooded strategic locations in Ado Ekiti, the state capital and other towns. The posters with the logo of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) carried a bold inscription of ‘Segun Oni for Governor, the Reformation has Come’. They were pasted in conspicuous places in Ado Ekiti area of Ajilosun, Basiri, Ijigbo, Ilawe Road, Okeyinmi, and other towns like Ikere Ekiti , Ifaki and other communities across the 16 local government areas. The last governorship election was conducted on July 14, 2018. Oni was the governor of Ekiti between May 29, 2007 and October 15, 2010, before he was sacked in a judgement delivered by former President of Appeal Court, Justice Ayo Isa Salami in a case instituted by Kayode Fayemi of the defunct Action Congress. Oni defected to the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2014 to support Fayemi’s second term ambition, where he held a position of Deputy National Chairman (South). He contested the 2018 APC governorship primary where he garnered a total of 482 votes to emerge as a runner-up to Fayemi who clinched the ticket. The former governor returned to PDP in 2020 over an alleged maltreatment of his loyalists in APC. Commenting on the posters, Dr Bayo Arowolaju, a former Special Adviser to Oni during his time as governor and member of the media team of his political platform named ‘Atunse Ekiti’, said they must have emanated from those agitating for the return of his former boss as governor. Arowolaju added that the pressure on his former boss to return as a governor had been intense in the last one year. 