The APC caretaker committee chairman in Ekiti State, Barrister Paul Omotosho, has promised that no member of the party will be sidelined from the ward to the state level. Omotosho, in a New Year message released by the Public Relations Officer, Mr Ade Ajayi, on Sunday, said the executive would ensure that every member of the party smiled in the New Year. He reiterated that the party was not unaware of some bickering among members, despite efforts to rally all, assuring that APC in Ekiti State will come out more united and stronger. The chairman appealed to party members to remain loyal and avoid any action that could draw back some of the successes already achieved. He rejoiced with party faithful for their trust in APC, assuring them that they shall not labour in vain. Barr. Omotosho thanked the people of the state for their tolerance and cooperation with the administration of Dr John Kayode Fayemi in 2020. He noted that  last year almost turned government all over the world to failure but the people of Ekiti state remained steadfast and resolute in their commitment to the APC government. The chairman lauded Governor Fayemi for his fatherly role and efforts to ensure that the state got its benefits and positions from federal government as well as involving the party in running the affairs of the state. The APC caretaker committee chairman in Ekiti State, Barrister Paul Omotosho, has promised that no member of the party will be sidelined from the ward to the state level. Omotosho, in a New Year message released by the Public Relations Officer, Mr Ade Ajayi, on Sunday, said the executive would ensure that every member of the party smiled in the New Year. He reiterated that the party was not unaware of some bickering among members, despite efforts to rally all, assuring that APC in Ekiti State will come out more united and stronger. The chairman appealed to party members to remain loyal and avoid any action that could draw back some of the successes already achieved. He rejoiced with party faithful for their trust in APC, assuring them that they shall not labour in vain. Barr. Omotosho thanked the people of the state for their tolerance and cooperation with the administration of Dr John Kayode Fayemi in 2020. He noted that  last year almost turned government all over the world to failure but the people of Ekiti state remained steadfast and resolute in their commitment to the APC government. The chairman lauded Governor Fayemi for his fatherly role and efforts to ensure that the state got its benefits and positions from federal government as well as involving the party in running the affairs of the state.