Many mothers whose children have gone missing in Kano took to the street yesterday in protest of what they term as nonchalant attitudes on the part of authorities to ensure the safe return of their children. The aggrieved mothers carrying placards and pictures of their missing children visited the state public complaint commission and the state ministry of women affairs to press home their demand. At both places visited, their spokesperson, Zainab Abdullahi Giginyu, complained that over the years, government has been adamant to their plight, despite several complaints to it. She said, from 2016 to date, women have recorded cases of 118 children that have gone missing and are believed to have been stolen and sold elsewhere in the country. According to her, the majority of the stolen children were from Hotoro, Kawo, Yankaba, and Gama areas of the state, noting that “We are greatly disturbed and want government to do the needful and return our children. “We are aware of government committee but for years we have not heard from them or seen what they have done on the issue” she added.  Many mothers whose children have gone missing in Kano took to the street yesterday in protest of what they term as nonchalant attitudes on the part of authorities to ensure the safe return of their children. The aggrieved mothers carrying placards and pictures of their missing children visited the state public complaint commission and the state ministry of women affairs to press home their demand. At both places visited, their spokesperson, Zainab Abdullahi Giginyu, complained that over the years, government has been adamant to their plight, despite several complaints to it. She said, from 2016 to date, women have recorded cases of 118 children that have gone missing and are believed to have been stolen and sold elsewhere in the country. According to her, the majority of the stolen children were from Hotoro, Kawo, Yankaba, and Gama areas of the state, noting that “We are greatly disturbed and want government to do the needful and return our children. “We are aware of government committee but for years we have not heard from them or seen what they have done on the issue” she added. 