The Police in Benue State, on Tuesday, paraded 83 suspects for their involvement in cultism and armed robbery. State Commissioner of Police, Mukaddas Garba, who paraded the suspects at the Command’s headquarters in Makurdi, said that 10 out of the number were arrested from different locations of the state in connection with armed robbery while the remaining 73 were being held for cultism. Garba said the feat was achieved between December 20, 2020 and January 5, 2021. He said the command had, in preparatory to the festivities, deployed police officers to various locations to arrest identified cultists and clamp down on other heinous crimes. The Police Commissioner listed items recovered from the arrested suspects within the period to include; 13 guns, 20 cutlasses, five live ammunitions, five cartridges and several charms among other items. Garba, however, appreciated members of the public for providing useful information which led to the successful arrest of the suspect even as he warned parents to monitor the movement of their children and wards. The Police in Benue State, on Tuesday, paraded 83 suspects for their involvement in cultism and armed robbery. State Commissioner of Police, Mukaddas Garba, who paraded the suspects at the Command’s headquarters in Makurdi, said that 10 out of the number were arrested from different locations of the state in connection with armed robbery while the remaining 73 were being held for cultism. Garba said the feat was achieved between December 20, 2020 and January 5, 2021. He said the command had, in preparatory to the festivities, deployed police officers to various locations to arrest identified cultists and clamp down on other heinous crimes. The Police Commissioner listed items recovered from the arrested suspects within the period to include; 13 guns, 20 cutlasses, five live ammunitions, five cartridges and several charms among other items. Garba, however, appreciated members of the public for providing useful information which led to the successful arrest of the suspect even as he warned parents to monitor the movement of their children and wards.