Abia State Police Command on Monday announced the recovery of master David Okoye who was stolen from his mother’s shop on August 21, 2020, stating that the recovered child has been reunited with his parents. The command in a statement on Monday in Aba by the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr Geoffrey Ogbonna said the child was stolen on August 21, 2020 but the matter was reported to the Police, prompting the Abia State Police Commissioner, Janet Agbede to order the men of Rapid Response Squad ( RRS) to recover the child and arrest the culprits. He explained that the Police RRS, led by Mr John-Bull Obioguru began the search for the missing child, adding that their efforts finally yielded fruit on December 29, 2020 when the child was located and recovered at Arochukwu LGA of Abia State from the syndicate. “The RRS operatives swung into action and recovered the child at Arochukwu in Abia State on 29th of December, 2020 after he had been given out for illegal adoption at N800,000” the statement read. The statement added , “On 1st of January 2021,the parents of David, Mr Ikechukwu and Precious Okoye came to RRS in Aba North Local Government Area and the baby was handed over to them hale and hearty.” The Abia Police Command also used the occasion to warn the general public against patronising illegal criminal baby adoption syndicate urging them to only patronise government approved and certified adoption homes. It also cautioned parents to maintain adequate watch over their children. Narrating how his child was stolen, the father of master David, Mr Ikechukwu Okoye said he was at his place of work on August 21,2020 when his wife came to inform him that their child had been stolen from their shop by a customer who came to buy some items. Mr Okoye added that his wife said she went to bring change (balance) for the supposed customer but on coming out, she could not see her child or the fake customer as the suspect had lured him away with biscuits, pointing out that his wife gave a vivid description of the suspect. He disclosed that it was during a search for their missing child that another child was also reported stolen in a nearby compound in Abayi Ariara, Aba and the parents of the stolen child also gave an exact description of the same suspect that took away master David Okoye. He noted that the woman told them that they had reported the matter to RRS office in Aba and he, together with his wife also reported their own matter at the same RRS office. Mr Okoye further said that Police in the course of their investigation, found out that the suspect who took away the two children lived in the same compound with the parents of one of his victims , thus enabling the Police to begin investigation from the suspect’s relations. He thanked the Abia Police Command for their efforts in rescuing his child, adding that it was months of emotional torture for him and his wife during the long period their son went missing. Abia State Police Command on Monday announced the recovery of master David Okoye who was stolen from his mother’s shop on August 21, 2020, stating that the recovered child has been reunited with his parents. The command in a statement on Monday in Aba by the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr Geoffrey Ogbonna said the child was stolen on August 21, 2020 but the matter was reported to the Police, prompting the Abia State Police Commissioner, Janet Agbede to order the men of Rapid Response Squad ( RRS) to recover the child and arrest the culprits. He explained that the Police RRS, led by Mr John-Bull Obioguru began the search for the missing child, adding that their efforts finally yielded fruit on December 29, 2020 when the child was located and recovered at Arochukwu LGA of Abia State from the syndicate. “The RRS operatives swung into action and recovered the child at Arochukwu in Abia State on 29th of December, 2020 after he had been given out for illegal adoption at N800,000” the statement read. The statement added , “On 1st of January 2021,the parents of David, Mr Ikechukwu and Precious Okoye came to RRS in Aba North Local Government Area and the baby was handed over to them hale and hearty.” The Abia Police Command also used the occasion to warn the general public against patronising illegal criminal baby adoption syndicate urging them to only patronise government approved and certified adoption homes. It also cautioned parents to maintain adequate watch over their children. Narrating how his child was stolen, the father of master David, Mr Ikechukwu Okoye said he was at his place of work on August 21,2020 when his wife came to inform him that their child had been stolen from their shop by a customer who came to buy some items. Mr Okoye added that his wife said she went to bring change (balance) for the supposed customer but on coming out, she could not see her child or the fake customer as the suspect had lured him away with biscuits, pointing out that his wife gave a vivid description of the suspect. He disclosed that it was during a search for their missing child that another child was also reported stolen in a nearby compound in Abayi Ariara, Aba and the parents of the stolen child also gave an exact description of the same suspect that took away master David Okoye. He noted that the woman told them that they had reported the matter to RRS office in Aba and he, together with his wife also reported their own matter at the same RRS office. Mr Okoye further said that Police in the course of their investigation, found out that the suspect who took away the two children lived in the same compound with the parents of one of his victims , thus enabling the Police to begin investigation from the suspect’s relations. He thanked the Abia Police Command for their efforts in rescuing his child, adding that it was months of emotional torture for him and his wife during the long period their son went missing.