The Ona of Abaji and Chairman of the FCT Council of Chiefs, Alhaji Adamu Baba Yunusa, on Saturday summoned a stakeholders meeting at his palace over reported cases of robbery attacks in the area. Alhaji Yunusa said he was worried over reported cases of robbery attacks within the metropolis, saying he has received three reports of some suspected robbers attacked some shops and dispossessed their victims of undisclosed cash at gunpoint. The monarch also called on the stakeholders to unite in order to tackle the challenges facing the area, saying tackling such challenges can only be done when there is peace and unity. “And I also want to call on you here in this palace to keep your differences aside and forgive who ever might have offended you. Also speaking, the chairman of the council, Alhaju Abdulrahman Ajiya, appreciated the efforts of the monarch for bringing together stakeholders from the area to discuss the development of the council. He said the council under his administration had intensified efforts in ensuring adequate power supply, youth empowerment, security of lives and property and other developmental agenda. The chairman, however, reiterated his  administration’s determination to continue to give priority to security in the area.  The Ona of Abaji and Chairman of the FCT Council of Chiefs, Alhaji Adamu Baba Yunusa, on Saturday summoned a stakeholders meeting at his palace over reported cases of robbery attacks in the area. Alhaji Yunusa said he was worried over reported cases of robbery attacks within the metropolis, saying he has received three reports of some suspected robbers attacked some shops and dispossessed their victims of undisclosed cash at gunpoint. The monarch also called on the stakeholders to unite in order to tackle the challenges facing the area, saying tackling such challenges can only be done when there is peace and unity. “And I also want to call on you here in this palace to keep your differences aside and forgive who ever might have offended you. Also speaking, the chairman of the council, Alhaju Abdulrahman Ajiya, appreciated the efforts of the monarch for bringing together stakeholders from the area to discuss the development of the council. He said the council under his administration had intensified efforts in ensuring adequate power supply, youth empowerment, security of lives and property and other developmental agenda. The chairman, however, reiterated his  administration’s determination to continue to give priority to security in the area. 