A cross-section of residents and other commuters in Dutsen-Alhaji town, Abuja, have expressed excitement over the expansion of the Dutse-Bwari road by the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA). The project while ongoing, caused gridlock from the market junction off Kubwa expressway down to Saukale roundabout, especially during rush hours. Some residents who spoke to City News  yesterday, could not hide their joy over the development, saying it will enable to get to their respective places of work on time, and also get back home early. A resident, Kelvin Odoh, who sells wears at the town’s modern market, said the dusty atmosphere at the market when the road project was ongoing and the gridlock, caused him low patronage, but he is now beginning to recover. Aliyu Sulaiman, a newspaper vendor, also lauded the project for the ease it has brought for motorists, but  lamented the delay in constructing a pedestrian bridge in the market area. He said residents, especially women and children found it difficult to cross the road by scaling the road barrier. A taxi driver, who gave his name as Tunde Michael, said while the traffic flow is now free,  the part from Ushafa bridge to a military check point along the Bwari road is still not completed. He said dust and potholes along the stretch of the road have become a nightmare to commuters. He lamented that the work there was slow and urged the construction company and the FCTA to expedite action on the project.  A cross-section of residents and other commuters in Dutsen-Alhaji town, Abuja, have expressed excitement over the expansion of the Dutse-Bwari road by the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA). The project while ongoing, caused gridlock from the market junction off Kubwa expressway down to Saukale roundabout, especially during rush hours. Some residents who spoke to City News  yesterday, could not hide their joy over the development, saying it will enable to get to their respective places of work on time, and also get back home early. A resident, Kelvin Odoh, who sells wears at the town’s modern market, said the dusty atmosphere at the market when the road project was ongoing and the gridlock, caused him low patronage, but he is now beginning to recover. Aliyu Sulaiman, a newspaper vendor, also lauded the project for the ease it has brought for motorists, but  lamented the delay in constructing a pedestrian bridge in the market area. He said residents, especially women and children found it difficult to cross the road by scaling the road barrier. A taxi driver, who gave his name as Tunde Michael, said while the traffic flow is now free,  the part from Ushafa bridge to a military check point along the Bwari road is still not completed. He said dust and potholes along the stretch of the road have become a nightmare to commuters. He lamented that the work there was slow and urged the construction company and the FCTA to expedite action on the project. 