The House of Representatives yesterday witnessed a heated session following the defection of another Zamfara Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) member to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Speaker of the House, Femi Gbajabiamila read the letter from Rep Kabiru Ahmadu announcing his defection to APC at the commencement of plenary. The lawmaker, in his defection letter, cited internal crisis within the state’s chapter of the PDP, adding that his decision was reached after due consultations with critical stakeholders. But the Deputy Minority Leader, Toby Okechukwu, protested against the defection and accused the House Speaker of breaching the constitution by accepting the defection of the lawmaker. He also said that the House leadership had failed to declare vacant, the seats of lawmakers that defected from the party as stipulated in the constitution. However, Gbajabiamila cautioned Okechukwu to be mindful of his words. Gbajabiamila said he did no wrong by receiving the defector, saying Toby and his party, the PDP could approach the court for interpretation if they felt the Constitution was breached. Reacting, the House Leader, Alhassan Ado Doguwa flayed Rep Okechukwu for alleged using offensive language against the Speaker. There was however a mild drama when Doguwa described Okechukwu as appearing ‘fake’ in reference to his attire. Okechukwu was dressed in Northern flowing gown with a cap to match. The Minority Leader, Ndudi Elumelu raised a point of order to speak on the comment of the House Leader on the attire of Okechukwu, saying it was discriminatory. He was however ruled out of order. Rep Okechukwu stood again to raise a point of order over the comments of the House leader on his attire, saying it was contrary to the provisions of Section 42 of the constitution which said no citizen should be discriminated against on the basis of ethnicity, sex, religion or otherwise. After some minutes of heated reactions and arguments, Gbajabiamila intervened and the proceedings of the House continued with other legislative businesses. 