Athletes who scooped a total 37 medals for Plateau at Edo 2020 are getting up to an N1 million in cash gift from Plateau governor Simon Lalong. Gold medallists get N1m, get N700,000, bronze medallists get N500,000 and their coaches get N300,000. Lalong announced the reward on Monday at the Government House in Jos, during a dinner organised to honour Plateau’s participants of the sports festival which was held in April. He added that the event was also an opportunity to celebrate their achievements at Edo 2020 where they emerged as “the state with the highest number of medals in the North-Central zone.” “The Plateau contingent took the 13th position and came home with 37 medals, made up of eight gold, 13 silver and 16 bronze. “Although our aim was to emerge top, we are nevertheless proud of the efforts of our contingent who gave their best. “Your performance reaffirms the sporting prowess our athletes have been known for over the years, having exhibited a high level of competence, endurance, versatility, professionalism and discipline,” the governor said. Like Plateau, Anambra also raked in 37 medals at the games–including 20 silver and 22 bronze. Governor Willie Obiano splashed N20 million on medalists and coaches to Edo 2020. State sponsorship Lalong said his administration has sponsored sportsmen and women to various championships and tournaments, which resulted in winning a total of 170 gold, 157 silver and 170 bronze medals. He pointed out that developing sports in the state would help to engage the youths and discourage them from involvement in crime. “Sports is critical in consolidating peace, through uniting people across ethnic, religious and political divides,” Laling said. He urged sports men and women, as role models in the society, not to indulge in drug abuse and other social vices inimical to their well-being and the society. Responding on behalf of the medalists, the Plateau team captain, Ifeoma Dennis, thanked the governor for his kind gesture of reward, while promising to perform better in subsequent competitions. She however appealed to the governor to review their salaries to meet current economic indices, while incorporating other athletes into the state’s payroll.(NAN)(www.nannews.ng)