The Hydroelectric Power Producing Areas Development Commission (HYPPADEC) has stated 350 persons died through water navigation in the country in 2020. Chairman HYPPADEC Governing Council, Hon. Joseph Terfa Ityav made thus known at Malale in Borgu local government area of Niger state during flag off of cutting of tree logs and removal of water snacks on Kaniji and Shiroro Lakes in Kebbi and Niger States respectively. He identified some of the causes of river accident to poor condition of boats, over loading, lack of life jackets and tree logs, hence the cutting of tree logs and removal of water snacks to contain the menace to alleviate the hardship of riverine communities. Meanwhile, the federal government assured the Commission of providing the required support for the completion of all its projects and activities to enhanced its mandates. The Secretary to the Government of Federation SGF, Mr Boss Mustapha, gave the assurance during the programme. Mustapha who was represented by Umar Musa Gulani, called for adequate follow up, monitoring, evaluation and report back to government accordingly while charging for oversight function. Chairman Senate Committee on Power and Special Guest of the occassion, Senator Gabriel Suswan represented by Deputy Chief Whip, Senator Abdullahi Sabi, said the project will bring successes to the people of affected communities. He charged both federal government and HYPPADEC board to do the needful and assured them of National Assembly continuous support in achieving the objectives of the commission. The Managing Director of HYPPADEC, Alhaji Abubakar Sadiq Yelwa, said the creation of the commission was due to ecological and environmental as well series lost of lives as a result of dams constructed 48 years ago as challenged. He commended President Muhammadu Buhari and National Assembly for signing the act in 2010 and the take off in realization of the affected communities aspirations. Yelwa decried the recent boat mishap where over 100 passengers lost their lives, assuring them of over coming such incidents in the future. The Emir of Borgu, Alhaji Haliru Dantoro Kitoro 11, appealed to governments to continue to support HYPPADEC in enhancing its set goals.