President Muhammadu Buhari has promised that Nigeria will continue to support the African Peer Review Mechanism (APRM) process in the country because of its benefits to good governance and democracy. President Buhari made the promise Tuesday at the launch of Nigeria Second Review Country Self-Assessment Report and flag–off of the validation of the Report at the six geo-political zones of the country, including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). He said his administration backed  APRM Process in Nigeria because the process enhanced transparency and good governance, strengthened our democracy, identified and addressed critical challenges as well as promoted all-inclusiveness. The President, who described the review as ‘‘timely and handy’’, said the present administration had institutionalised its machinery for a successful conduct of the second peer review of the country. The President, who recalled that Nigeria was first peer reviewed in 2008, said the country had since then recorded tremendous success in the implementation of the National Programme of Action as recommended. He reiterated the commitment of his administration to the implementation of the new National Programme of Action that will come up after the review process. ‘‘Agenda 2063 is a strategic framework for the socio-economic transformation of the African continent over the next 50 years with a strong mandate on NEPAD and APRM. ‘‘This is in an attempt to build on and seek the acceleration of the implementation of past and present continental initiatives for the growth and sustainable development of the African Continent. ‘‘This exercise will be a strong reference point in the nation’s history, a source of courage and positive drive for this initiative that is aimed at consolidating the strides of this present administration,” he said in a statement issued by his spokesman, Femi Adesina. The President therefore urged all stakeholders to come up with more vital strategies, mechanisms and measures that would enable diligent implementation of the new National Programme of Action for accelerated Economic Growth and Sustainable Development in Nigeria and Africa. In her remarks, the National Coordinator/Chief Executive Officer of AUDA-NEPAD Nigeria, Hon. Gloria Akobundu thanked President Buhari for his transparency, courageous leadership and consenting to the conduct of the Second Peer Review of Nigeria and his consistency in achieving the desired goal. ‘‘African Peer Review Mechanism is a mirror for Member States to encourage each other and build resilience to challenges and foster solutions to under development and promote good governance in the continent,’’ she said. She pledged that the agency will leave no stone unturned to ensure that a smooth process is attained. The event was attended by the Country Self-Assessment Mission led by Dr. Abdoulie Janneh of Gambia, a former Executive Secretary of the UN Economic Commission for Africa, the Chief Executive Officer of AU-APRM Secretariat, Prof. Eddy Maloka, among others.