The Ibidunni Ighodalo Foundation (IIF) has rolled out the second cycle of Project 40at40, which would see another 40 couples get 40 In Vitro Fertilization (IVF) grants in accordance with the wishes of the late founder of the foundation. The cycle will begin on July 19, 2021 with the opening of the application portal (www.ibidunniighodalofoudation.org) where couples who meet the requirements can apply. Having gone through several fertility struggles, the late Mrs. Ibidunni O. Ituah-Ighodalo founded IIF in 2016 to give couples-in-waiting, the chance to become parents through assisted reproduction, IVF and other fertility treatments. The late Ibidunni before her demise on June 14, 2020, had pronounced that her 40th birthday wish was to gift 40 couples with 40 IVF grants but she didn’t live to fulfil her wish. However, to fulfil her wish of working with couples through their journey to becoming parents, the deceased’s husband, Pastor Ituah Ighodalo of Trinity House on her 40th birthday on July 19, 2020, launched Project 40at40, which gifted 40 IVF grants to 40 couples, marking the first cycle of the project. According to Pastor Ighodalo, the success of the first cycle was made possible by the generous donations and support of well-meaning people, corporations and partners. He explained that in collaboration with renowned fertility medical partners, IVF treatments was administered to 39 beneficiaries in the first cycle out of which seven pregnancies have been achieved while expecting results of five others. While he appreciated the support of the donors, he called for continued support and donations from all and sundry to enable the foundation carry out its laudable project. “Assisted reproduction, IVF and other fertility treatments cost about N6.5m and not many people have the funds to carry out these procedures, which sometimes requires two to three cycles to achieve success,” he said. The application, which would only be opened for two weeks beginning from July 19, 2021, according to Pastor Ighodalo is open to couples from all states of the country who would be open to various methods of fertility treatments. He further disclosed the plan of the Foundation to establish a Mother and Child Centre in Lagos, which will among other things house an IVF unit and a nursery. The Executive Secretary of the Foundation, Adedayo Richards, expressed excitement over the progress made so far from the first cycle; noting that, though not every treatment will result in conception. He assured that the foundation remains committed to keeping hope alive, and helping struggling families ease their way into parenthood. Late Ibidunni Ighodalo was the former face of Lux soap and founder and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Elizabeth R, an events planning company.