Golden Agri Inputs Ltd, a subsidiary of the Agro-Allied Division of Flour Mills of Nigeria (FMN), has launched a maize and soybean value chain development programme for farmers, called YALWA (abundance) in Kaduna State. A statement by the FMN noted that the programme was established to aggressively double maize and soybean output in Nigeria through greater yields, improved quality and competitive pricing. With the formal signing ceremony of the memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Kaduna State Government recently, the programme, which has a national outlook, is set to commence implementation from the state. Speaking when the MoU was signed, the general manager, Golden Agri Inputs, Falade Olusegun Isaac, said the project was in line with the company’s purpose of feeding the country and creating links between agriculture and industry, while also enhancing the food system in the country. “Initiatives such as YALWA will surely influence the development of raw materials availability in the country, enhance food security and alleviate the strain of forex. “To achieve this, we will be working closely with farmers via well-structured and well-defined out-grower schemes, assisting them by providing improved inputs as loans, providing good agronomic support, extension services, and ultimately off-taking their harvest, thus providing a ready market at a competitive price,” Isaac said. The programme’s leader and head of commercial, Golden Agri Input, Olushola Fashedemi, commended the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) for its invaluable role in ensuring that the programme at the national level kicks off with no issues. Other states captured in the programme are Niger, Gombe and Kwara. Its impact is projected to reach over 25,000 farmers and touch 100,000 individuals through farmer-household empowerment and job creation over the next five years. The Commissioner for Agriculture in Kaduna State, Hajiya Halima Lawal, commended the initiative and urged farmers to take advantage of the opportunity available to them. By Jason Nasiru