A group of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Anambra State has berated the governor of Ogun state, Mr. Dapo Abiodun, over the declaration of Senator Andy Uba as the winner of the governorship primary election in the state. At a briefing on Wednesday, the group known as The Progressives Media Team of APC said they were disappointed in the Ogun governor. Hon. Jude Orolua, who spoke on behalf of the group, alleged that Abiodun manufactured figures without conducting any primary election in the state. He said the APC is still waiting for their governorship candidate, insisting that Andy Uba is not the party’s candidate. Orolua said the matter of governorship primary election in the state is far from being resolved and nobody should claim to be the candidate. “We want to state it categorically clear that no primary election was held in anywhere in the state and the purported declaration of anybody by Governor Dapo Abiodun led APC primary election committee in the state only exist in the imagination of the committee and their collaborators in the state.” “Members of our great party across the 326 political wards in the state are still waiting for electoral committee since 26th June ,2021 to carry out their assignment for the party in the state. It is important to note that as at 5:00pm on Saturday 26th June, 2021, there was no sign of any APC Primary election taking place anywhere despite the large turnout of APC members to exercise their rights. Also, Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), some media houses and accredited observers for the Primary election have spoken with one voice that there was no primary election” he said. According to him, even aspirants from the same local council as Senator Andy Uba have come out publicly to say there was no accreditation, voting and collation of result in their local government where the so-called winner emerged from. According to him, history will repeat itself “if this charade is not addressed properly”. He called on APC to sanction Senator Andy Uba and Governor Dapo Abiodun.