Women in China, Japan, and Southeast Asia have used rice water as a hair treatment for centuries. Notwithstanding, rice water is the starchy water left over after rice is cooked or left to soak. It is thought to make the hair smooth and shiny, as well as help it grow faster. Many people find rice water to be a beneficial hair treatment. Now, the rice water trend is spreading. However, advocates of using rice water for hair believe it detangles the hair, makes hair smoother, increases shine, makes hair stronger and helps hair to grow long. Furthermore, below are different ways to make rice water, these include: Soaking Rinsing rice thoroughly is part of the soaking process. Soaking is the quickest way to make rice water. To use this method: –     Take ½ cup of uncooked rice, rinse thoroughly –       Place rice in a bowl with 2–3 cups of water –       Leave to soak for 30 minutes –       -Strain the rice water into a clean bowl. Boiling Another way to make rice water is by boiling the rice. The steps to achieve this includes; –       Cover ½ cup of rice with double the water typically used for cooking. –       Cook the rice in boiling water and strain the rice water into a clean bowl before use. Fermented vs. plain rice water Some rice water advocates claim fermented rice water has more benefits than plain rice water. According to a 2012 study, fermented substances have a higher number of antioxidants. Antioxidants may combat hair and skin cell damage, which is why they are typical ingredients in beauty products. To ferment rice water, follow steps 1–4 of the soaking method. –       Before straining, leave the rice water to stand at room temperature for up to 2 days, allowing it to ferment. –       Strain the rice water into a clean bowl before use. Note that, fermented rice water is the result of rice and water together in a vessel, sealed at room temperature for 12 to 24 hours. Fermented rice water contains vitamins, minerals, antioxidants, amino acids and inositol which are all key components for luscious locks. Inositol penetrates into the hair to help repair and prevent damage. Amino acids are key, as fermented rice water contains many of the same amino acids that naturally occur in our own hair’s keratin. Just as a refresher, keratin is the stuff that our hair is made from. Fermenting rice water allows for more of the nutrients to be pulled from the rice and into the water. Fermentation is optional but very beneficial. 