The rift between the All Progressives Congress (APC) faction loyal to Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq of Kwara State, and the group loyal to Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has taken a new dimension. This is as the leadership of the party loyal to the Minister called for the removal of the governor from the reconciliation committee in Anambra State. Addressing a press conference in Ilorin under the aegis of Concerned Youth Stakeholders on, spokesperson of the group, Comrade Mustapha Mohammed said the Governor’s inclusion in the reconciliation committee was a wrong choice. According to him, “Can a man give what he doesn’t have”? How will it be possible for a character famous for causing disunity and disharmony in the APC chapter of his own home state be saddled with the responsibility of instituting peace in another State Chapter. “His nomination is a wrong choice but for Governor Sanwo-Olu leading the team”, he added. He said the APC has known no peace in the state since the governor joined the party “to the extent that the goodwill we enjoyed prior to the 2019 elections has been recklessly squandered. “The governor is no longer in a good standing to lead the party to electoral victory in the state. But surprisingly, the scramble for illusory 2nd term tickets is the reason for this needless and unending crisis”. Mohammed said a house divided against itself cannot stand adding that the party cannot approach the electorate with disunity and go to polls with one voice in 2023. They however declared their unalloyed support for the Minister and Bashir Omolaja Bolarinwa as the chairman of the party. It pointed out that the few others within and outside the state who are in collaboration with the Governor “are only aiding and abetting him to destabilise and destroy our party in the state. But reacting to the issue, the chairman of the party in the state who is of the Governor’s faction, Abdullahi Samari, told Daily Trust that those calling for his removal lacked the power to do so. He said “They lacked the power to call for the removal of the Governor who has been appointed by the National leadership based on the confidence they have in him to contribute meaningfully to the reconciliation Committee of the party in Anambra. “I think it’s high time they needed to be cautioned about their remarks against the Governor. As the governor of the state, he deserves to be accorded some level of respect”, he noted.