TEXEM remains a leading innovative consulting firm that seeks to offer an unmatched learning platform to African leaders. TEXEM’s services help organisations achieve their goals, optimise their impact and thrive. This is what the just successfully concluded TEXEM capacity development programme for Nigerian Senators and Members of the House of Representatives achieved. As leaders, legislators too need to acquire the right skills that can enable them to perform their roles efficiently and effectively. Programmes organised by TEXEM mainly focus on leadership, corporate governance, successful implementation of change, enhancing performance/workplace productivity, and winning strategies. All these topics are very vital for legislators since they are strategic leaders and bastions of democracy. The five-day TEXEM programme with the theme “Optimising Legislative Impact” saw legislators challenge assumptions, network, share best practices, and brainstorm on inclusive growth and nation-building strategies held at Birmingham, UK between 5th -9th of July. This capacity programme included a trip to Shakespeare’s birthplace and other exciting activities. TEXEM utilised its tested and proven approach during the entire capacity development programme from day 1 to day 5. The programme comprised case studies, a boat ride, a visit to Cadbury World and presentation by the Founding Director of this iconic organisation; games and interactive daily assessments. TEXEM’s methodology harnesses the quadruple benefit of improved engagement, enhanced motivation, optimised fun, and stimulated concentration to improve learning performance and classroom dynamics while still striving to meet the learning goals. The key themes covered during the training were leadership for sustainable success, strategic leadership in an unknown tomorrow, good governance and the importance of public participation and civic engagement during the implementation of projects by legislators and the executive arm of government. All the legislators who attended the programme articulated that the benefits of the programme consist of increased individual and organisational performance, improved capability to influence and negotiate for symbiotic outcomes, enhanced strategic leadership quotient, effective management of change in the nation and better decision-making credentials Indeed, the 5-day programme was a perfect mix of well-planned activities facilitated by world-renowned scholars and executives whose contribution to the area of good governance and strategic leadership is exemplary. In his teaching during the session, Prof. Paul Griffiths, a Professor of Practice, Products & Services, Ashridge Executive Education at Hult International Business School, said: “The opportunity to share perspectives and ideas to address the challenges of working in an uncertain world is unparalleled”. Others who commented are Amb. Rachel Aron, a former British Ambassador to Belgium and Chair of various boards; and Amb. John Buck, a former British Ambassador to Portugal & former Director of BG. As TEXEM has always done, the conclusion of this programme marked the end of an impactful and life-changing learning experience. As was evident during the closing ceremony, all of those who attended are already looking forward to implementing what has been learnt and transforming their organisation and the nation. Indeed, the programme wouldn’t have come at a better time than now when the world is fighting a pandemic, and Nigeria is facing socio-economic crises and insecurity. Notably, at this critical time and as ever, the role of legislators as leaders who aspire to champion; accountability, good governance and inclusive growth is critical and their actions influence many. Therefore, with the right skills and result-oriented mindset, senators and members of the House of Representatives can help solve societal problems and effectively lead innovation even during tough times. Sharing their experience, Sen. Ibrahim Hassan Hadejia, a participant, said: “I like the qualities of the faculties; they are first class faculties that know what they are doing as well as the flexibility of the programme.” We are encouraged to participate and being assessed really keeps us on our toes. Our visit to Cadbury World and Shakespeare’s birthplace were practical teachings.” Hon. Akin Alabi on his part said, “The case studies, interactive and quiz segments get you fully engaged. The interactive sessions make you engaged and engrossed and in line increases assimilation and learning.” According to Hon. Olumide A. Ojerinde, “I have been able to identify where my lapses are and make a change in my leadership skills.” For Hon. Chinedu Ogah, the programme was worth it. “We have been taught about quality leadership for legislation in Nigeria, we have been taught integration among our people. We were taught different ways of rendering solutions. “I am taking the lessons here back into my legislation, to my constituency, to my local government, to my ward and to my polling unit.” According to Hon. Ahmadu Jaha, “The programme is very educative and inspiring particularly the resource persons. They are people of integrity.” Also sharing his experience, Hon. Shehu Balarabe, said: “What I cherished most about this programme is seriousness. I have not found such dedication anywhere. The programme was well organized. You can see what they are teaching us in the faces of the professors.” Source: TEXEM