The All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) has urged President Muhammadu Buhari and the National Assembly to call the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to order over the substitution of its governorship candidate, Prof. Chukwuma Charles Soludo, for the Anambra State governorship election. The National Chairman of the APGA, Dr. Victor Ike Oye, made the call on Friday in Abuja at a news conference, while reacting to the list of 18 registered parties’ candidates released by INEC for the election slated for November 6 this year. He said that one Jude Okeke and his co travellers had infiltrate INEC to publish an aspirant that did not make it through to the primary of APGA and to announce him as the governorship candidate of APGA. According to him, after its primary election was concluded, the party submitted the particulars of its governorship candidate to INEC on July 2, and was duly acknowledged. He expressed dismay that INEC is giving credence to some persons alien to APGA, who had gone to procure a judgement from a Jigawa court to drop Soludo, a former Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), its governorship candidate. Oye said that there is subsisting order of the Federal High Court in Awka, Anambra State, directing INEC to maintain the status quo and receive the particulars of Prof. Soludo and his deputy, Dr. Onyekachi Ibezim submitted by his leadership and publish the same. “We know that it will not last. We have already appealed against the Jigawa judgment and the court sat on the 14th of this July in Kano. To tell you how wicked the impostors are, apart from going to Jigawa to get the bizarre judgement in which my name was not even there, they procure a fake lawyer to represent INEC and APGA. “They went to court in Jigawa to confuse the judge, pretending that they were the genuine party leaders. How can you talk about change of leadership of APGA with the national chairman who is still alive, and without adhering to constitution of the party? As a law-abiding party, we have appealed against the Jigawa judgement,” Oye said. He said that the development is a big embarrassment to Nigeria’s political system, and embarrassment to Nigeria as a nation and its leaders, particularly to President Muhammadu Buhari who is a stickler for rule of law and equity. “I call on President Buhari and leadership of the National Assembly to call INEC to order. The law enforcement agencies should deal with these impostors who are causing confusion in Nigeria political life,” he said. He added, “After the primary, INEC sent a letter to me to come forward to collect the code for uploading of the particulars of our candidate and his deputy. On the July 2, in accordance with the Electoral Act and the Timetable of INEC, we uploaded the particulars of our governorship candidate Prof. Chukwuma Soludo and his deputy, Dr. Onyekachi Ibezim. Immediately we concluded that, INEC duly acknowledged it. We also submitted the hardcopy at the INEC office and it was duly acknowledged,” Oye said. He said that according to section 31(3) of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended), it states “The Commission shall within seven days of the receipt of the particulars of candidates, published the same in the constituency where the candidate intends to contest the election.” He said, “We submitted our particulars of our candidate on July 2, INEC received and acknowledged it the same day. According to the Electoral Act, INEC supposed to have published APGA candidate name, seven days after receiving it, which is July 9. “Now the question is, why did INEC wait till July 16? Because the information we got was the INEC delayed till today so that they will issue nomination papers and documents to a stranger, and alien to APGA for them to fill and return today for their names to be filled as APGA candidate? That is unacceptable, it is criminal. INEC cannot do that.  …INEC recognises Umeoji as APGA’s candidate, Uba as APC candidate The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared a sitting member of the House of Representatives Hon. Chukwuma Michael Umeoji, as the flagbearer of the All Progressives Grand Alliance in the November 6 Anambra State governorship election. INEC also named Senator Andy Uba, who won the controversial primaries of All progressives Congress (APC), as the candidate of the party for the November election. These were contained in the list of candidates for the Anambra State governorship election published by the commission and signed by INEC national commissioner and Chairman Information and Voter Education Committee (IVEC), Festus Okoye on Friday in Abuja. Prior to the primary elections, APGA had been rocked by a leadership crisis with two factions laying claims for leadership of the party. While the Victor Oye-led faction, recognised by INEC, conducted the primaries that produced a former Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Prof. Chukwuma Soludo; the Jude Okeke faction conducted another primary that declared Umeoji as the party’s candidate. The electoral umpire also dropped the candidates of the People’s Democratic Party PDP, Mr. Valentine Ozigbo, leaving the main opposition party’s slot blank. The commission also named Senator Ifeanyi Patrick Ubah as the candidate of the Young Progressive Party (YPP). However, Okoye said the decisions was based on the judgments and court orders served on the commission in relation to the primaries of the political parties and other processes leading to the election. “The commission would continue to act in consonance with the constitution and the law and will continue to obey the judgments and orders of courts served on it,” Okoye said. According to the list, all the 18 registered political parties would participate in the November poll which has 15 male candidates and two female candidates. Okoye added that the personal particulars of the candidates would be published in the commissions Notice Board in Awka, Anambra State.