President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday unveiled Team Nigeria’s Tokyo Olympics kits and charged the contingent to repeat the Atlanta 1996 Olympics feats. The occasion which was held at the State House Conference Hall in Abuja also witnessed the presentation of Team Nigeria to the President who was represented by Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo. Osinbajo urged the team to replicate the performances of past Nigerian Olympians, noting that “you stand on the shoulders of giants.” He said “And for anyone who thinks we are joking, maybe they haven’t seen our exhibition basketball game on Saturday with the USA team, especially that amazing block by Precious Achiuwa against KD – Kevin Durant, who is probably the best player in the NBA right now. So, Precious, you are the real MVP! “You stand on the shoulders of giants and with the quality and intensity of training you have received and your exploits during the qualification series for the Olympic Games, I am confident that by God’s grace, you will again make history and beat the best in the world.” The Vice President, who lauded the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, for coordinating the various sporting federations in preparation for the Games, urged the athletes to make good use of facilities at their training ground in the City of Kizarazu to put themselves in proper shape ahead of the Games. Earlier in his remarks, Sunday Dare, while presenting to the Vice President the made-in –Nigeria kits for Team Nigeria said the athletes were ready to make the country proud. “I am happy to announce today that the complete kit for Team Nigeria for the Tokyo 2020 Games was produced with a heavy dose of local content. We thank AFA Sports, Africa For Africa, a local sports equipment manufacturing company for delivering on the production of uniforms for Team Nigeria. “This is a veritable testament and commitment of the Buhari administration to support and grow local content and industry in all sectors of the Nigerian economy,” he said. On his part, President of the Nigeria Olympic Committee, Habu Gumel thanked the President and the Vice President for honouring Team Nigeria and assured that the contingent will not disappoint the country. Monday’s presentation was done as the Nigerian athletes and officials are set to depart the country on July 13, for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics.