United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) has donated medical equipment and lifesaving commodities to primary health facilities to boost the health sector in Borno State. Head of UNFPA Maiduguri sub-office, Christian Macauley, while handing over the items to Borno State government at the state Medical Store in Maiduguri at weekend, said it was part of the fund’s intervention under its sexual reproductive health of children and women. According to him, the effort will also improve gender equity and social inclusion and ease access to essential sexual and reproductive health and maternity care services. “UNFPA is providing this support of medical equipment and life-saving items to Borno State government to ensure the reproductive health is not instructed especially during this COVID-19 period. “We have just handed over some medical equipments and consumables to health facilities worth millions of naira to three local government area namely MMC, Jere and Konduga respectively,” Macauley said. He explained that the equipment were meant for health workers at the primary health facilities in the state. He said the PPEs were to ensure the health workers are protected against Coronavirus while attending to women in the primary health care facilities. In her remarks, programme assistant for Action Health Incorporated, Joy Adamu, said UNFPA partnership with AHI has been providing life-saving assistance and alleviate suffering through an integrated and coordinated humanitarian response focusing on providing reproductive maternal, newborn, child and sexual and reproductive health services (RMNCH). “The procurements contains vital equipment for maternity care, child welfare, and general health care services. “The life-saving drugs and medical equipment will be distributed to Twenty-Five (25) health care facilities in Jere, MMC and Konduga LGA, in supporting health service delivery. “We are confident that these supplies and equipment will be used appropriately and that health services for the general public will be improved as a result of the humanitarian intervention,” Musa said.