Stakeholders in the health sector have called for a multi-sectoral response to the drug problems in Nigeria, adding that there should be an evidence-based drug control strategy in the country. They made this call in Abuja at the CSO-Parliamentary-Stakeholders’ Policy Roundtable on Effective Drug Control Response in Nigeria. The event was convened by YouthRISE Nigeria in commemoration of the 2021 International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking. The program brought to the conversation table members of the House of Representatives, National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Federal Ministry of Health, Association of Community Pharmacists of Nigeria, Office of the Senior Special Adviser to the President on Sustainable Development Goals, civil society organisations and other critical stakeholders. The Chairman/CEO, NDLEA, Brig-Gen Buba Marwa (Rtd), in his goodwill message delivered by Dr Kojo (Lead, Prosecution and Legal Services), decried the increasing social and health impact of drug prevalence in Nigeria. In his speech, he expressed the agency’s effort and commitment to employ evidence-based drug control strategies. He also identified the agency’s willingness to collaborate with civil society organisations and other critical stakeholders to address the drug problem in the country. A key highlight of the program was the panel discussion held with members of the House of Representatives – Hon. Benjamin Kalu, spokesperson of the House of Representatives and Chairman, House Committee on Media, and Public Affairs; Hon. Samuel Adejare, Deputy Chairman House Committee on Healthcare Services; Hon. Abubakar Yabo, Member, House Committee on HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria Control; Hon. Henry Nwauba, member of the House of Representatives. The panel discussion focused on exploring the role of the National Assembly in addressing the drug problem in Nigeria. Hon Kalu, while elaborating on the Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act 2020 sponsored by him, highlighted the need to critically review Nigeria’s drug law and provide an enabling policy environment in response to the current realities of the drug problem in the country. Other policymakers commented on the proposed drug policy reform bills- NDLEA (amendment) Act Bill (2020), Dangerous Drugs (Amendment) Act (2020) and Cannabis Control Bill (2021), expressing their commitment to champion the legislation that promotes public health and sustainable development. Expert presentations by the Federal Ministry of Health and the West Africa Commission on Drugs gave insight on the public health approach to drug use and recommendations for policy reforms that respect human rights and reduce drug-related risks.