The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has said that it will systematically embark on the commencement of physical registration of voters in its state and Local Government Area offices after consulting stakeholders and reviewing the security situation across the country. INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, said this on Tuesday in Abuja at a meeting with the Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs) which among others discussed issues on the ongoing Continuous Voter Registration (CVR). According to him, the commission has already configured enough machines and commenced deployment nationwide for further training of officials in readiness for the commencement of the physical registration exercise. He said that it shelved its initial agreement to activate some 2,673 centres and deploy 5,346 officials for in-person registration and settled for an initial 811 locations nationwide involving 37 State and FCT offices and 774 LGAs. “The commission is aware that not all Nigerians have access to computers, smartphones or internet connectivity to register online. Accordingly, we have repeatedly assured every eligible registrant that there will also be an opportunity for physical or in-person registration at designated centres. “Even the online registrants will have to complete their registration physically at those centres. Our aim is to activate some 2,673 centres to which we intend to deploy 5,346 officials for in-person registration. However, after consultation with stakeholders, the commission is proceeding systematically as we review the security situation across the country. “We agreed with stakeholders, including the security agencies, to start from our state and local government offices. This means an initial 811 locations nationwide made up of 37 State and FCT offices and 774 Local Government Areas. “We have assured Nigerians that the CVR exercise which commenced on June 28, 2021, will continue for the next year. I am glad to report that the commission has approved the detailed timetable and schedule of activities for the CVR exercise, including the display of the register of new voters for claims and objections by citizens at various stages of the process as required by law. “The commission is not unaware that we have scheduled the commencement of the physical registration for Monday, July 19, 2021. Already there are indications that this date or immediately thereafter may be public holidays. “We are also aware that some of the online registrants have scheduled their appointments for the completion of their registrations on the dates that are likely to be public holidays. The commission will meet on Thursday this week to review the situation and provide clarity on the matter,” Yakubu said. 542,576 register in two weeks on CVR While giving an update on the online pre-registration of Continuous Voter Registration (CVR), Yakubu said that exactly two weeks since the exercise began, a total of 542,576 Nigerians has completed the online pre-registration as of 7 am on Monday, 12 July 2021. “Out of this figure, 456,909 are fresh registrants while 85,667 have applied for voter transfer, replacement of Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs), update of voter information record, etc. “Out of 542,576 online registrants so far, 356,777 (or 66 per cent) are young people between the ages of 18 and 34 years. This is followed by 134,719 middle-aged registrants who fall between 35 and 49 years. “The third category is elderly persons aged between 50 and 69 years of which 44,896 Nigerians have registered. Interestingly, some 6,184 senior citizens (aged 70 years and above) have taken advantage of the new online opportunity to register,” Yakubu said.