The Rector, Isa Mustapha Agwai I Polytechnic, Lafia, Dr. Justina Anjiode-Kotso, has said that the institution doesn’t train terrorists elements. Justina-Kotso, who visibly expressed worry, recalls that the unfortunate incident that occurred recently on March 11, 2021 of students’ unrest, which led to wanton destruction of the institution’s property worth millions of naira was uncalled for. The rector made the statement while receiving Excellent Leadership Award 2021 from the Legislative Writer’s Forum, National Assembly, Abuja on Wednesday in Lafia, the state capital. While promising to take the institution to the next level of development, she attributed the success recorded within the shortest period of time to the tireless effort of the entire management of the institution, adding that the award has added more roles to her responsibilities. The rector revealed that the protest was led by some group of people suspected to be bad elements and not the students of IMAPL. “We don’t train terrorists in IMAPL, all the institution was after is to train students with good character behaviors and discipline which would be useful to the institution and the society at large.” According to her, all efforts put in place in adding value to the development of the institution was as a result of the support she has been receiving from the state governor, Mr. Abdullahi Sule. She added that the governor takes all projects in the institution as his personal project, disclosing that the governor has given express approval for the immediate renovation of all the properties destroyed by some group of people suspected to be hoodlums during the students’ mayhem and work would commence immediately after the Sallah break. Also speaking, the deputy rector of the institution, Mr. Jibrin-Ibrahim Ahmed, thanked legislative writer’s forum, NASS, Abuja for finding the rector worthy of the award, saying that the award would spur her to do more. Presenting the award to the rector, Mr. Apeh Kelvin, who was the leader of the team, said the LWF of NASS, Abuja, comprising of print, electronic and online media, said the award was given to the rector based on selfless innovation and commitment to the growth of the institution.