The Ford Truck’s introduction of the vehicles into the Nigerian automobile market is set to revolutionise the heavy duty segment of the industry. The launch was the highlight of the recently concluded 15th Lagos Motor Fair, targeting waste disposal agencies, private operators of waste evacuation and disposal, among others. It was made possible through the partnership between Ford Trucks and Coscharis Motors PLC. The unveiling of some trucks made by Ford Trucks was no doubt one of the highpoints of the last Lagos Motor Fair attended by the Director-General of the National Automotive Design and Development Council (NADDC), Jelani Aliyu. Auto analysts, mostly journalists, at the fair note that the coming of the Ford Trucks into the waste disposal truck market will enrich competition as the new entrants are said to offer owners real value for their money. According to Coscharis Motors, its partnership with Ford Trucks to sell and represent the global automaker in after-sale service in Nigeria is aimed at offering more value to the country’s truck market by extending the products and services to all truck users in the market. President of Coscharis Group, Dr Cosmas Maduka, said, “We are excited to have a respected brand like the Ford Trucks which afford us play in the truck segment in Nigeria and add value to our stakeholders in the construction, logistics, waste management and other related lines of business that will require our various models of trucks to delight them.” Vice President of Ford Trucks, Serhan Turfan, was quoted as saying, “With our new partner, we are committed to providing the highest level of customer service and competitive after-sale solutions through dedicated facilities for sales, service, and parts. We believe Coscharis will represent our brand in the best possible way in Nigeria.” General Manager, Marketing and Communications, Coscharis Group, Abiona Babarinde, emphasised on why the firm added Ford Trucks to its portfolio. “Being part of the auto fair is a strategic move to showcase what Ford Trucks and Coscharis have on offer in order to jointly delight the heavy duty truck customer.”