Mujahid Asari Dokubo, former militant commander and head of the Biafra Customary Government (BCG), has broken his silence on the rearrest of Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). Kanu, who was standing treason trial, had jumped bail after a Federal High Court in Abuja released him on health grounds. He had fled to the UK from where he incited his followers to wreak havoc in the South East. However, he was rearrested abroad and extradited to Nigeria last weekend. Weeks before he was rearrested, Asari Dokubo, who had fallen out with Kanu, had vowed to destroy his “evil empire”. “Nnamdi Kanu, I’m not in your category but for this, I will surely bring you down. I will destroy this evil empire that is working as a hindrance to the restoration of Biafra. Biafra is your business now; you have no other avenue for gainful income. It is a pity how Igbo people have fallen for this evil, but your time is up. I am out for you. And I will get you,” Dokubo had said at the time. Few days after Kanu was caught, Dokubo mocked the IPOB leader, saying his ordeal has not started. In a video, Dokubo accused Kanu of defrauding Biafrans, saying he has been unable to account for funds remitted to him. “Nnamdi Kanu, I promised I will smoke you out. Your madness never start, this one wey start now, na market e dey go. You have harmed Biafrans and traded with us so much. “You collected our money in the name of defence funds and you cannot give account. You are demanding that all Biafrans should pay money to you on monthly basis or they will not be allowed to enter Biafra. Doesn’t that make you a conman, an extortionist? “You alleged that that you gave me N20 million, video doesn’t lie. When I stated it last year leading to election, you were so cowardly not to respond to me. You sent your followers to respond to me and they said a lot of things and I demanded the evidence that I demanded N20 million from you. “I have never been a member of IPOB, you gave me N20 million, tell us is it by bank transfer, is it by cash, who brought the cash to me? I’m waiting. Produce the evidence.” Dokubo taunted Kanu by saying he had been detained over 70 times yet he has remained in the country. “I can’t run away from my land because they will overrun it. I am not like you Ben Johnson… I fought all the way to the supreme court. My record is in the Supreme Court, you can check it.”