The Deputy Chairman of Aba South LGA of Abia State, Hon Princess Nwobilo, has accused the Executive Chairman of the council, Hon Clinton Ebere, of sexual harassment. The Deputy Chairman, in a petition she wrote to stakeholders in Aba South council, alleged that Hon Ebere had on two occasions “induced me to a forceful sexual harassment which I have always escaped by the grace of God”. However, the accused LGA boss dismissed his deputy’s claims, describing them as calculated falsehood. He explained that a fact-finding team set up to investigate the matter cleared him of all allegations while promising to shed more lights on his innocence, on a later date. Recalling her predicament, the Deputy LGA boss claimed that the incidents happened sometime in 2018 when she worked together with the Chairman, and again after their swearing-in in January, 2021. According to her, few days after their swearing-in, the Aba South LGA Chairman listed out avalanche of revenue opportunities in the local government to her. He said the chairman told her what she stood to gain if she worked harmoniously with him throughout their tenure. In the petition, Hon Princess Nwobilo stated that she did not understand that working” harmoniously well ” with the LGA boss actually meant that she should avail herself for romantic relationship. She went on to claim that her boss invited her for an official meeting with some LGA staff sometime in January at Brass street, Aba but according to her, she was surprised to discover that it was only her that was present during the said meeting. She added that the LGA boss allegedly made some romantic moves towards her on the supposed venue of the meeting, which she claimed, she rejected. Princess Nwobilo said her Christian faith and socio-political beliefs helped her in overcoming the alleged sexual advances of her boss, which the accused, according to her, tried to achieve through financial overture. The Deputy Chairman in the petition, urged Aba South Aba South stakeholders to intervene in her alleged travails. However, the LGA Chairman maintained that all the allegations raised by his deputy are products of falsehood and blackmail. Governor Okezie Ikpeazu has described the incident as a show of shame by the Chairman and Deputy Chairman of Aba South Local Government Area. The Governor, in a statement signed by his Chief of Staff, Prof ACB Agbazuere, reminded the Chairman and his Deputy that they were elected to provide democratic dividends to the people of Aba South and not to fan the embers of discord.