As Muslims celebrate Sallah, the Chief Missioner of the Nasru-Lahi-l-Fatih Society, (NASFAT), World Headquarters, Imam Abdul-Azeez Onike, has said safety is a non-compromising feature of Islam. He urged Nigerians to maintain all the health protocols which the authorities had stipulated and also ensure they get vaccinated. These, he stated, will stop the spread of the virus. “I pray that The Almighty Allah preserve our lives in good health,” he said in his Eid-el-Kabir message. He said, “The deen (religion) of Islam attaches importance to safety of lives and properties. To underscore this fact, Salat, as compulsory and structured as we know it, is allowed to be done in a special way different from the normal situation, in peculiar moments, so as not to compromise safety of lives and properties. Quran 4:102 “.. (O Messenger!) If you are among the believers and rise (in the state of war) to lead the Prayer for them, let a party of them stand with you to worship, keeping their arms. When they have performed their prostration, let them go behind you, and let another party who have not prayed, pray with you, remaining on guard and keeping their arm… “So also is Hajj: Q2:196 “Perform the pilgrimage and the pious visit for Allah. If you are forcibly prevented, make whatever sacrifice is feasible.” “If these are the injunctions of God, it therefore behoves those in authority to ensure that everything is done to protect lives and properties of citizens. Hence, I call on government at all levels, traditional and religious leaders, and all concerned stakeholders to join efforts to improve the security situation in the country and intensify efforts to secure the lives and properties of all persons irrespective of their locations in Nigeria.” Onike charged the Muslims to pray for the country to overcome the security and social challenges facing the country. “My Brothers and Sisters in Islam, as we celebrate this year’s eid ul adha 2021, we need to be prayerful for our dear nation, Nigeria, over her daunting security and social challenges. “We also need to use this occasion to pray for succor for the people in Europe and other parts of the world who have suffered varying degrees of deaths and damages arising from the recent deadly floods,” he added.