The Nigerian entertainment industry is richly blessed with iconic figures. Following the amazing dexterities with which they ply their trades,  the industry has continued to wax strong in its various genres, especially Nollywood, which is the main hub of the entertainers’ preoccupations. Many of them have made humongous impacts and achievements that have given them away as the giants of the industry. Suffice to say that a lot of them have left their foot prints in the sand of time through remarkable contributions to the socioeconomic and political development of the country. The values that they have added to their lives and the society are enough for them to beat their chests and say that they had paid their price. But despite their giant strides in the entertainment forum, they are also  passionate about success streaks in other areas, especially business. They keep showcasing themselves, thereby proving that it is not enough to be stage performers in the make-belief career, as there are other grounds to exploit and soar higher. Consequently, many of them delved into other business ventures with apparent indications of  impressive successes and have become business tycons. Their success profiles come with good incomes as they demonstrate  mastery of the businesses they embark upon. Not only do they drive the country’s business sector in their own climes, they also shine in the world’s business firmament, as if entertainment has become a second rating in career venture. While some of them have delved into music, broadcast, advocacy, others stepped into politics, entrepreneur, agriculture, real estate, food, fashion and fitness. In all these concerns, they are doing relatively well. Daily Trust Saturday presents some of them. Omotola Jalade Ekeinde She is a Nigerian artist, singer and a former model with a trademark name in the Nigeria’s movie industry.  The screen goddess holds a chieftaincy title in Ondo State in recognition of her outstanding achievements in Nollywood  and first Nigerian entertainer to have her reality television show. The philanthropist who studied Estate Management is also thriving in other businesses as the Chief Executive Officer of Redhot Concept, a production company. The company, according to her, is responsible for the provision of infrastructure in the movie industry by providing shooting studios and a conducive environment to produce a world-class movie. She plans to establish a school in future to reinvigorate Nigeria’s movie industry. The president of O’ Sexy nation has been making the best of her huge followers on Facebook, the first Nigerian artist to have over one million Facebook followers in Africa boasting of a large and strong fan base. Redhot Concept also produces movies and documentaries. Desmond Elliot The ace actor, director and filmmaker owns a distribution and production company, Denziot Productions. Aside from entertainment, he is among the Nollywood ambassadors in Nigerian politics. He contested in 2014 for a seat in the Lagos State House of Assembly and won under the Surulere Constituency. Since then, he has been in politics, while also making a cameo in the movie industry. He was in the middle of a controversy for his comment on the anti-social media bill at the House of Assembly in 2020 during the #EndSARS protest. He later apologized for his comments promising to be more conscious and aware. Hadiza Gabon Hadiza Aliyu is an actress and filmmaker popularly called Hadiza Gabon. Her success in the movie industry has rubbed off on her advocacy campaigns as she continues to touch lives through her humanitarian efforts. She founded the Hadiza Aliyu Gabon (HAG) in 2016 with the aim of improving the lives of people by providing educational and healthcare aides. In an interview with Daily Trust, she said: “One of the greatest things that bring me happiness and take away my worries and pain is to put a smile on the faces of the vulnerable. I discovered that we make a living by what we get, but we make a life by what we give.” Kate Henshaw Kate Henshaw is a Nollywood actress, reality television judge and has been striving as a fitness instructor. The 49-year-old versatile mother has made her marks in the Nigerian movie industry featuring in several successful movies and soap operas. She was among 50 experts of entertainment called the wall of the world on the World’s Best, a reality television series featuring international performers in the US. Despite her success in the movie industry, she has been breaking barriers and raising the bars in the fitness industry with fitness routines with a touch of dancing steps. She had held a fitness show and released a DVD on how to encourage Nigerians to make the best out of fitness. Fitness to her has been fantastic and reinvigorating adding that she did not feel her age and she chose fitness as a lifestyle to encourage everyone, especially women. Mariam Apaokagi Mariam Apaokagi popularly known as Taaooma is known for her trademark slaps in comedy skits. But few people know her for her finger food business that has earned her accolades and augment her earnings from the comedy skits and several endorsements. Chop Tao is a small chop company whereby customers order their favourite finger food and get it delivered to them. There are several savoury photographs of the lovely products of her business on her business social media pages. Genevieve Nnaji The actress, movie producer is also an entrepreneur with investment in real estate. The screen goddess has won several awards in the Nigerian movie industry before extending her magic wand to the business world. The singer is also smiling at the bank with the proceeds from her clothing line St. Genevieve launched in 2014. The clothing line prides itself as a fashion brand with trendy attires for different occasions. Her customers include several Nollywood actresses and other crème de crème of the society. Dbanj Oladapo Daniel Oyebanjo is not only known as the Koko master but also the originator of the Koko Garri. The award-winning music maestro is also an entrepreneur that has built on his successes on stage to establish a striving chain of businesses, especially in the agricultural sector. Though more is yet to come out of the agricultural exploits, he still referred to his decision to start the Koko Garri is one of his greatest decision. He is also the owner of the D’Kings Men Media Limited.