At least 19 people have been killed and others missing after gunmen on motorbikes attacked Tsauwa village for the second time in Batsari Council Area of Katsina on Monday evening. A source from the village said the attackers struck shortly after 5:45pm. The gunmen dispersed the villagers and chased them on motorbikes, shooting 19 to death. He added that the attackers also burnt down many houses in the village and carted away a large number of cattle and small ruminant animals. Another source in the village said they had informed security operatives of the ongoing attack but there was no response. “After leaving the village, they went to Yar Lumo village where they spent the night playing music, firing guns in celebration of their victory in Tsauwa,” the source said. “Nineteen people are confirmed killed and several others are still missing and there is no guarantee whether they are alive or dead.” He however added that a resident who phoned his brother was answered by one of the gunmen in possession of the phone. “You have killed two of us and we had killed multiple of what you have done to us,” he said he was replied. Some of names of 19 people killed include a deputy imam, Mallam Bala (Rabe), Abdulmudallib, Sani Lawal (Atti), Suleiman Ashiru, Ashiru Lawal, Mannir Sanusi, Husamatu Kabi,  Mansir Ayyau, and Shafiu Ayyau. Others are Alhaji Salisu, Abdulaziz Iliya, Umar Dan Shehu, Tukur Wada, Abubakar Mande, Malam Bawo, Abubakar Abdulmalik, Iliya Abdulmummuni and Tukur Haruna all residents of the village, buried Tuesday according to Islamic rites. It is the latest attack on Tsauwa after the village attacked on February 17, 2020 by bandits. Some 21 people were killed in that attack. Police has confirmed 18 killed, one critically injured and another missing. When contacted, the police spokesman in Katsina, SP Gambo Isah, said, “Commissioner of Police, Sanusi Buba, who personally visited the village, had instructed DC Operations and DC CID to ensure that the attackers are apprehended and brought to book.” 