I was a part of Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje’s entourage when we went to Abia State at the invite of the Chairman of Abia State/South East Council of Traditional Rulers, His Royal Majesty (Eze) Eberechi Dick, in August, 2018, for the conferment on him, the chieftaincy title of Agu Na Eche Mba of Igboland (literally meaning: Lion that protects Igbo people). Part of the reasons advanced by the Igbo monarchs for the conferment of the title was a way of thanking the governor for the measures he has been putting in place to protect the lives and property of ethnic nationalities in Kano, particularly the Ndigbo during the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) crisis which could not allow for reprisal attacks. In fact, during the heights of the quit notice served by Coalition of Arewa Youth, Ganduje had to personally intervene by summoning a series of meetings at the Government House in Kano to not only douse the simmering tension, but also harmoniously resolve the crisis. As part of his resolve and commitment to enhancing the prevailing peace and religious harmony,  Ganduje also introduced an Annual Inter-Religious and Community Conference towards strengthening Inter-Faith and Community Relations for Harmony, Peace and Sustainable Development in Kano State. As a detribalized Nigerian with patriotic zeal, it has always been Ganduje’s personal conviction that any Nigerian can choose to stay wherever he likes. He, therefore, made a solemn declaration that no Nigerian resident in the state should be addressed as non-indigene. In ensuring that his conviction is real, ethnic nationalities are not only considered as major stakeholders in the scheme of things, but also relishing development programmes ever embarked upon by any administration in the history of the state. These include construction of Court Road, Sabon Gari, which was re-named Rochas Okorocha Road commissioned by the then Imo State governor himself; the ongoing construction of road networks in Sabon Gari area that include, among others, Niger Road, Hausa by Igbo Road, Yoruba Road, Odetola Road which has been completed and being put to use as well as upgrade and rehabilitation of Primary Health Care Centre to Maternal and Child Health Centre (MCHC) along Middle Road in Sabon Gari, which is also fully equipped and was commissioned by the then Minister of Health, Dr. Isaac Adewale. Last week, the governor hosted a cream of ethnic tribal leaders in the ancient city for the inauguration of the Inter-Tribal Traditional Leadership Association of Nigeria (ITTLAN), a traditional elite platform meant to promote and foster unity, communal cohesion and conflict management among diverse groups existing and resident in host Nigerian communities. The decision by the government to sponsor the programme is in recognition of its relevance to the current efforts for peaceful, united and sustainable nationhood and in consideration of the commitment of its members to the germaneness of one Nigeria. At a time when the country is fleeting through the most difficult period in its history, given the current insecurity situation and agitations for secession by some disgruntled elements, the formation of the association is seen by the Ganduje administration as an effort for effective and efficient integration and stable nationhood by engaging ethnic tribal clan structures in all local diaspora communities of Nigeria for national development. Governor Ganduje’s proclivity for the traditional institution as a veritable vehicle for the dissemination of government policies, programmes and mobilization of the populace for same, stems from the fact that if given more prominent roles, traditional institutions will continue to remain relevant and a force to reckon with in fostering unity and understanding for the continued existence of one Nigeria. The creation of four additional emirates by his administration has further strengthened the institution to take an active role in ensuring good governance. They are development catalysts and agents for mobilization for policy implementation, monitoring and review of policy options. Their determination to continue with their role of mass mobilization and community engagement, particularly on routine immunization, the fight against malaria and other child killer diseases has boosted the population immunity and improved health indicators in the state. In present day Nigeria, the institution has no business in partisan politics. Where any traditional ruler gets involved in it, he ends up losing his prestige or crashing completely. That is why it is imperious that the constitution should treasure the non-involvement of traditional rulers in partisan politics, while also adequately protecting the institution from unwarranted snooping and meddling by the political elite. Nevertheless, traditional institution has generally fared much better under democratic dispensations, increasingly supported by the rule of law. Even with the many inhibitions, the veneration for the traditional institution in Nigeria since Independence has developed securely, particularly among the academic, business and political elite. There are many Nigerian retired military officers, senior civil servants, academics, the clergy, businessmen and political elite acquiring chieftaincy titles, which is still seen as conferring acceptability on recipients for their roles in modern Nigeria. Ganduje, while making a remark at the inauguration ceremony, declared his endorsement for a constitutional role for the traditional rulers in this country, as such roles will assist them with wide powers over the affairs of their subjects as obtainable before the advent of colonial rule, where they have absolute power on the police, the prison, the economy etc. Under the present Nigerian constitution, the laws governing the traditional institution are legislated at the state government level only and provide exactingly for advice-giving functions for the state traditional councils set up by these laws. At the federal level, there is no corresponding provision for such. It is crucial for the constitution to guarantee funding for the institutions to undertake community development activities. The present provision of five per cent of the gross statutory allocation to the local governments which is grossly inadequate and not even guaranteed, is also unsystematically implemented. With the current insecurity situation in the country, it becomes imperative that this new equilibrium of roles is well netted and given a legal backing in the constitution. The constitution should create a council of traditional rulers at the federal level as a forum where traditional rulers’ representatives from all parts of the country can meet regularly to deliberate on major national issues and provide advice to the Federal Government. Such assemblage should shun the snares of the existing non-statutory national body, which meets occasionally and far in-between and seems not to represent the nation’s diversity in its leadership structure. With such powers, the prevailing agitations for separation by some peeve elements would have been nipped in the bud by the monarchs who can arbitrate on some civil or even criminal matters, considering that they are always the first point of contact in the event of conflict in the communities. It will also help in perfecting the work of the judiciary in reducing the number of awaiting trials and decongestion of correctional centres. At least, the constitution should identify the roles of the traditional institutions in communal life such as marshaling the community for enlightenment, education, economic empowerment, peace building, safety, security, among others. Muhammad Garba is the commissioner for Information, Kano State.