The African Union (AU) team on Country Review Mission (CRM) for the peer review process has commended Nigeria’s self-assessment report of its second peer review as excellent and amazing. The Head Panellist on AU CRM, Prof. Janneh Abdoulie, said this yesterday in Abuja, at an interactive session with critical stakeholders, Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) and media organisations. The CRM team arrived Nigeria to further assess the country’s self-assessment record, following the approval of the reports by President Muhammadu Buhari for validation. The assessment process is on the ongoing Peer Review of member states of African Union Development Agency and New Partnership for Africa’s Development (AUDA/NEPAD), across the continent. President Buhari had recently approved Nigeria’s second Peer Review report of the African Peer Review Mechanism (APRM) for validation. Abdoulie told reporters that the body appreciated President Buhari for the approval given to Nigeria’s self-assessment record to go ahead with the peer review process in the country. The review process in Nigeria is very professional, transparent and impartial manner. It is important that we do this and we just want to salute Nigeria for what we’ve seen so far, that the degree of inclusiveness has been very high, it’s an amazing process,” he said. Earlier, the National Coordinator AUDA/NEPAD, Princess Gloria Akobundu, commended Nigerians for their contributions for the successful outcome of the reports approved by President Buhari. According to her, the review will address economic challenges, good governance, food sufficiency, health challenge, security as well as political activities in Nigeria. She said, “We are here to inform you that the AU team is here in the country and also to inform you that we are set for validation exercise and this exercise will take us across the six geopolitical zones of the country. “So, we are happy to have you here today because there is no way we can carry out such exercise without the respected group of society, so you are important.” On his part, the Programme Officer, Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD, Mr Austin Aigbe, told the AU team to urge the government to address youth restiveness in the country. He said that though the government is trying in area of infrastructure, it is not paying adequate attention to human development, which has resulted to violence and criminality by the youths across the country.