Vehicle electrification in Nigeria got a boost on Tuesday as the Federal Government commissioned a solar powered electric vehicle charging station in Lagos. The project built by the National Automotive Design and Development Council (NADDC) was commissioned at the University of Lagos. It was the second to be commissioned by the NADDC as part of a move to transit from fossil fuel-powered vehicles to electric vehicles. This was coming after the Federal Government launched the first electric vehicle in Nigeria, the Hyundai Kona assembled by Stallion. Three brands—Hyundai Kona EV, the Jet EV Van and the Electric Vehicle—developed by the engineering students of the University of Lagos were tested in the newly commissioned station. Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo said the development was part of the Muhammadu Buhari-led government‘s initiative “to promote advanced technology transfer and the development of domesticated human capital.” “For my ministry, programs such as these are the lifeblood of everything we are trying to achieve. “This charging station has been developed by the NADDC in its effort to promote applicable local solutions for vehicle electrification in Nigeria. It will offer students firsthand experience with the latest innovations in mobility and renewable power technology. “It is strategized to be an effective platform for focused research and development to even more applicable viable electrification solutions for Nigeria and Africa,” he stated. The DG of NADDC, Engr. Jelani Aliyu, stated that the EV Charging Station commissioned is 100% Solar Powered. According to him, the installation consists of 60 PV Monocrystalline Solar arrays (panels), which have a capacity of 86.4 kilowatts per hour. It also comes with three online-offline 5KVA Hybrid inverters synchronized together to give 15 KVA/48 WATTS, as well as 36 units of Deep Cycle Gel batteries with an output of 48 volts/19 and 0. He added, “The Power bank consists of 36 units of dry cell, deep cycle batteries of up to 95Kwh storage capacity. “The system provides ordinary 13A and 15A sockets that can support all types of normal chargers. The station also provides a 7.4kw CCS fast charger and can support up to 11kw types.” Aliyu further explained that the monitoring and evaluation team shall consist of experts from NADDC, University, Hyundai and relevant stakeholders.