The Skit Store, a one-stop shop for school, office, and lifestyle supplies, has said it plan to raise at least N2m for 400 out-of-school children in the country. The Managing Director, SKLD, Adepetun Temilola, said this on Thursday at the formal launch of its second Abuja store in Gwarimpa. The new store will be the Skit’s 6th outlet across the country and the megastore will also serve as the Abuja regional office for the store’s parent company, SKLD Integrated Services. “SKLD’s vision is to create value for all stakeholders. This is carefully considered because we are all about win-win at SKLD. Right from inception, SKLD has sought to bring convenience, excellent service, and innovative product delivery to all our customers. Our value proposition remains a focus on our customers, passionate employees aligned to our excellent service delivery ethos, as well as being a socially and environmentally responsible corporate organization,” Mrs. Temilola said. She said that this would be achieved by committing 10 percent of customer purchase to raise the N2m to help keep 400 African children in school. She said, “Today, we will announce our initiative with the Whitefield foundation that allows us to contribute 10 percent of sales proceed to educate disadvantaged children, these types of activities are ingrained in the SKLD corporate DNA and reflect our vision of being more than just a profit-making organization playing in the school, office and lifestyle space. “It is a commitment to provide excellence and exceptional service to all our clients while being environmentally and socially responsible. These are the core values upon which the business has been anchored as well as inform the unique needs the Skit store exists to cater to,” she said. Also speaking at the launch, the Deputy Managing Director, SKLD, Tayo Osiyemi said, “Gwarinpa, Abuja was carefully selected as a regional office and the 6th Skit Store because it is cosmopolitan and matches the Skit Store demography – upwardly mobile city with high-quality schools, offices and professionals). “Skit Store has been realigned to expand its present service offering so that we can capture a wider customer base that we service all year round. Skit Stores now provide more than school uniform supplies, as we have now leveraged our sourcing and delivery competence to pivot into office supplies and lifestyle products. This forms the basis of our new retail strategy and is exemplified in the new SKLD Retail megastores, Gwarinpa Skit Store is the first of these Megastores to be commissioned making today a cornerstone moment,” Osiyemi said. He also said that the garment production facility employing 78 workers (mostly women) and churning out over 11,000 garments monthly was inaugurated in 2017, while Marcel Hughes Apparel, SKLD’s flagship uniform brand launched in 2009 and has gained wide acceptance as a leading school wear brand.