Coscharis Motors Plc has introduced the all new Ford Explorer at the 2021 Lagos Auto Fair taking place in Lagos. The Ford Explorer offers a bespoke driving experience for the tech-savvy auto enthusiasts providing amazing comfort and safety features for drivers. The All-New Explorer offers a more spacious interior with increased cargo space compared to the previous generation. With seating for up to seven, passengers in all three rows will benefit. The All-New Explorer has best-in-class 1st- and 2nd-row hip room and 2nd-row headroom, while 3rd-row passengers enjoy unsurpassed headroom. Should someone unbuckle their safety belt, a new Belt Monitor System will alert the driver as to which belt is unbuckled through the instrument cluster productivity screen. And thanks to a new dual-wall dashboard between the engine and passenger compartments, as well as acoustic glass for the windshield and 1st-row windows, everyone will enjoy the quietest All-New Explorer cabin ever. The Explorer features as standard a series of driver-assist technology including: Auto-on/off headlamps, Hill Start Assist, Apple CarPlayTM/Android Auto/AppLink 3.0, Reverse sensing system, Lane-keeping System, Auto high-beam headlamps, Auto hold, Pedestrian detection, Forward collision warning, Dynamic brake support, Post-collision braking, EcoCoach and  Intelligent Oil-Life Monitor. You can go further with the Ford Protect which offers a holistic suite of service, maintenance, warranty and roadside-assistance products aimed at keeping the vehicle in perfect working condition in addition to a 3-yr/100 000km Comprehensive Warranty. General Manager, Marketing and Corporate Communications, Coscharis Group, Mr. Abiona Babarinde, said, “We were in high anticipation and excitement levels to showcase the current Ford product lines and remind our customers of the nearly two million naira discount on Ford Escape but more importantly, keen to reveal the latest model of the Ford Explorer under a strict covid-19 protocol as our customers’ safety came top on our list. “In addition to revealing the Ford Explorer, we are announcing the availability of ease ownership through our finance scheme packages with a basket of partners including Coscharis Mobility, Polaris Bank and Alt Drive Leasing.” 