In a bid to answer the critical questions of productivity and sustainability plaguing agriculture in Nigeria, I have observed various approaches and models of innovation deployed by many local and international players. The most fascinating and result-oriented ones in my opinion are always market-driven. Here, I attempt to open publicly one of our own models of agricultural innovations that answers to issues like low yield and poor quality of various agricultural products due largely to poor access to quality agricultural inputs and scientific education on the part of the farmers. This is because inadequate agricultural infrastructure and ineffective extension services also contribute to the state of affairs of Nigerian agriculture. Secondly, the model aspires to solve the issue of the absence of secure local and foreign markets, market-oriented production and developed local market for agricultural outputs. As well as formal markets, the system involves financial institutions in order to mitigate the low capacity to procure modern input, technology and other services on the part of the farmer. Lastly, the continual degradation of farmlands, wrong or inadequate application of fertiliser and other chemicals, bush burning, soil erosion, pollution and negative human and natural activities on the environment are contributors to ecological damage of agriculture and the model is based on producing with least damage to the environment in order to curb this as well. In this digital agriculture model, the farmers access the service at no cost, while all other stakeholders pay a periodic subscription fee. The model gives each key actor access to the information they need, and also establishes connectivity to other key actors they need to deal with. For example, the platform provides the famer with weather information and a seed guide, but it also connects him/her through the market to farm input providers to purchase the seeds. By integrating the agricultural value chain, this model enables farmers not only to be more visible to the other stakeholders of the agricultural value chain but also to new information. I believe models like this will end the isolation of smallholder farmers, increase their productivity and improve the sustainability of their agriculture.