The Gboleru Ruling House of Ikirun in Osun State has unanimously nominated Prince Tajudeen Adesegun Gboleru as the next Akinrun of Ikirun to succeed late Oba Rauf Olayiwola Olayiwola Adedeji. The head of the royal family, Prince Gboyega Olatunji, at a press conference in Osogbo, the state capital, urged the state government to commence the process of the appointment and installation of Prince Tajudeen Adesegun as the new king of the town without delay. Olatunji said it was the turn of Gboleru Ruling House to produce the new Akirun, adding that the entire family had agreed on the nomination of Prince Adesegun. The Akirun stool became vacant after the demise of Oba Rauf Olayiwola Adedeji II who joined his ancestors a few months ago. Olatunji said the nominee is very suitable for the Akirun throne, saying he is eminently qualified to be the next Akirun and that he would move the town to greater heights when he ascends the throne of his forefathers. He said: “The Gboleru Ruling House, which unarguably is next in line to produce the next king, is blessed with many competent professionals of pedigree who are well exposed both locally and internationally to bring the needed development to the town and we have unanimously picked and nominate one of us, Prince Tajudeen Adesegun Gboleru, as next Akirun of Ikirun.” He said the Ikirun District Chieftaincy Declaration and Gazette of 1959, approved in 1960, re-registered in 1970, which were done during the reign of Late Oba Lawani Adeyemi, and its subsequent versions, especially the Gazette of 1980 signed by late Chief Bola Ige, the former Governor of old Oyo State, during the reign of late Oba Lawani Adeyemi recognises three ruling houses in Ikirun land which are Obaara, Adedeji and Gboleru. “We, the Gboleru Ruling House wish to state unequivocally that Ikirun has always been known as a peaceful ancient town that has transited from one king to the other in the last 100 years without any crisis. “Over the years, the peaceful coexistence among our people has greatly contributed to the more peaceful environment that now prevails. “To maintain this good attribute, we met and agreed unanimously to present our candidate, Prince Tajudeen Adesegun Gboleru as the next Akinrun of Ikirun land,” he noted. “For reference sake, late Oba Lawani Adeyemi Oyejola, from the Obaara ruling family ruled between 1945 and 1989 after which late Oba Olayiwola Adedeji II, ruled between 1991 and 2021. “It is, therefore, crystal clear that Gboleru Ruling family is the next in line to produce the next Akinrun of Ikirun”.