The Federal Government has inaugurated the reconstituted Russian-Nigerian Joint Coordination Committee (JCC), of the Nigeria Atomic Energy Commission (NAEC). This is part of efforts to resuscitate the relationship between the two countries in cooperation for the peaceful use of nuclear energy. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, represented by the Permanent Secretary, Ecological Fund Office, Dr. Habiba Lawal, inaugurated the members on Thursday in Abuja. The SGF recalled that within the framework of Nigeria’s bilateral relations with the Russian Federation, a number of Intergovernmental Agreements (IGAs) were signed between the NAEC and Russia’s State-owned Nuclear Corporation (ROSATOM) for cooperation in the design, construction and decommissioning of nuclear power plants on the territory of Nigeria. He noted that JCC was put in place to allow for effective negotiations, particularly focused on ensuring that Nigeria is not subjected to any unfair trade agreements during the process of Nigeria’s engagement and discussions with ROSATOM and on the implementation of the various elements of the agreement. The SGF emphasized that the reconstituted JCC was informed by the need to bring in new people with ideas that will guarantee the effective implementation of the various elements of the agreements that have been signed. “As JCC members, a lot is expected from you in the discharge of this onerous task. Considering the calibre of people that have been assembled here today, I am optimistic that the committee will succeed,” the SGF said. Speaking earlier, Acting Chairman/CEO of NAEC, Prof. Yusuf Ahmed, said that Nigeria’s tremendous feat has secured the country a seat for the 16th time as one of the four African countries on the 35-member Board of Governors of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), the highest policy organ of the IAEA. In order to sustain the feat, Prof. Ahmed Yusuf, said that NAEC has continued to reorientate the public on the general misconception of nuclear and its applications in different human endeavours. He said, “Nigeria must begin to work towards diversifying her energy resource base to include nuclear in order to ensure the country’s energy security.” In his acceptance speech on behalf of JCC, Nasir Bello, assured the government of the preparedness of the members to collectively bring into the assignment their vast technical and professional expertise. The terms of reference of the committee include to provide a broad framework for Cooperation with the Russian Federation in the Peaceful uses of Atomic Energy; to participate in the design, construction, operation and decommissioning of both NPP and MPRR; and to ensure dynamic monitoring and implementation of all agreements with the Russian Federation among others.