The Imo State Police Command says it has busted a drug syndicate and arrested a baron who supplied drugs to secessionist and other terror groups in the state. The command also said it seized drugs worth N150 million . Police Public Relations Officer, CSP Mike Abattam, said the feat was achieved when a driver, who posed as a commercial vehicle operator, was arrested while searching for passengers at Ware House Bus Stop en route Owerri to Orlu. He said “Arising from the ceaseless raids on IPOB/ESN camps all over the state and its environs and the successful neutralisation of the terror principals by the Imo State Police Command, the remnants of the drug suppliers/distribution syndicate were on 7/8/2021 at about 11.30am smashed by the ever active tactical teams.” One Obinna Ohaji, 28, posed as a driver in search of passengers in a Nissan Caravan bus with registration number ABUJA,  KUJ 88 XC companied by one Samuel Egwi, 36, along Warehouse bus stop Owerri, Imo State. “On searching the bus, a large quantity of white substance suspected to be cocaine neatly concealed was recovered. On interrogation, the bus driver said the cocaine was given to him to deliver to a lady at Elele in Rivers State. “He led the command’s tactical teams to the border between Imo and Rivers states where the receiver, one Princess Samuel, 17, was arrested. “She confessed to being the supplier in the Rivers State axis of the terror group. She led the tactical teams to the house of the drug baron at Umuaka in Njaba LGA, Imo State, where one  Nnamuka Uchenna, 32,  was arrested. “On searching his premises more quantities of the white substance and the scale for measuring the drug were recovered.  Also arrested in his residence were Chinedu Ukaegbulam, 20,  and Augustine, 39. “They are believed to be the ones who distribute the drugs to the various terror camps in the state. “Investigation is on to trace the source of the hard drugs into the state and to arrest other members of the syndicate in hiding,” the statement added.