Speaker of the House of Representatives Femi Gbajabiamila says the House is to consider reviewing provision for the Basic Health Care Provision Fund from 1% of consolidated revenue fund to 2% in the “next few days”. The fund has been pegged at 1% of consolidated revenue in the National Health Act. “House of Representatives within the next few days is going to consider the amendment of the  National Health Act which provides the basic framework upon which health policy in the country is developed,” he said. Gbajabiamila was speaking  at the annual general meeting and scientific conference of the West African College of Physicians in Abuja on Tuesday, and his comments were delivered on his behalf by chairman of healthcare services committee, Yusuf Tanko Sununu. “We  will recommend the  increase of the Basic Healthcare Provision Fund (BHCPF) from 1% to at least 2% of the Consolidate Revenue. This will go a long way in providing quality healthcare service delivery and improve the country’s health indices”. Gbajabiamila, said the House has also passed the National Health Insurance Amendment Bill to make health insurance scheme mandatory for all Nigerians ,adding that it is awaiting presidential assent. Minister of State for Health, Dr Olorunnimbe Mamora, said some of the challenges contributing to Nigeria’s poor health indices include inadequate human resources for health, non-optimal supply chain management, poor data management as well as limited funding to scale up coverage for evidence-based interventions. He said others include urban-rural distribution of skilled frontline health workers, brain drain of skilled workers to other countries, and the COVID-19 pandemic which further compounded the challenges. He said the Federal Ministry of Health is committed to addressing the challenges even in the face of the pandemic. National Chairman of the West African College of Physicians (WACP), Nigeria chapter, Prof Aboi Jeremiah Madaki said the college’s objectives include promotion of professional training of physicians in the West African region, promotion of standards of professional practice, ethics and morals of physicians and promoting healthcare in the region among others.