The Presidential Support Committee (PSC) has warned the 17 southern state governors that their insistence that power must rotate to the south in 2023 is capable of leading to the break-up of the country. The National Facilitator, Hon Gideon Sammani and the Director, Media PSC, Dr. Kailani Mohammad, said this after the inauguration of its new national officers on Friday in Abuja. Mohammad said that the North would not be compelled to accept the position of southern governors at their recent Second Summit in Lagos because it (North) has the advantage of a voting bloc. “We don’t see how the governors should be confronting the President. Look at their insistence that power should shift to the south in 2023. We are Nigerians and we have the bulk of the votes in the North. It is a matter of give and take; it is not an issue of saying it is a must. If you are saying it is a must, that means you are looking for something, like breaking up the country. That is just a simple analogy,” he said. Reject anti-open grazing law ultimatum to Buhari He also took a swipe at the governors for issuing an ultimatum to President Muhammadu Buhari on the implementation of the anti-grazing law. He said that the second governors’ summit was as a gang up against the President, as their resolution was not in tandem with democratic norms. He said, “For setting a deadline to stop open grazing even when President Muhammadu Buhari has made a statement in that regard, is an open confrontation against the President. It is not a wise political decision. He also said that the threat by the governors to implement the anti-grazing law by September 1, 2021 will result in a clash of interest between the federal government and the state government. “President Buhari has explicitly explained that grazing law has been in existence for quite a long time. Even the routes are there. The Fulani used to follow that route many years ago. But today it has been overtaken by buildings and farms and the rest. “For example, in Benue State, I am surprised that Governor Samuel Ortom is saying lots of things to divide us. They have been together with the Fulani for centuries. He promulgated a law that he does not want open grazing and that is the bane of the problem. “This country is our own. If the governors chose that they will now implement the anti-grazing law, there is going to be a clash of interest between the federal government and the state government. And the Federal government has a right as it is in our constitution. We don’t see how the governors should be confronting the president,” Mohammad said. Fair hearing for Kanu He also expressed dismay with comments on the arrest and prosecution of the leader of the proscribed Independent People of Biafra (IPOB) Nnamdi Kanu for treason due to his actions and statements against the Nigerian state. While demanding a fair hearing for the arrested Kanu, he also urged public understanding for the law to take its full course without any prejudice case is before the courts to defend his actions. He added that if there is a genuine desire for Biafra, it must be tabled and discussed in a civilized manner by more credible, experienced and articulate leaders in the National Assembly from the South-east zone.