The opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said that its legal battle against the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2019 governorship election in Imo State, Governor Hope Uzodimma, is still subsisting at the Supreme Court. The party made the clarification against the backdrop of reports of a suit by one Barr. Mcfyne C. Chikwendu, who claimed to be a concerned citizen, seeking in an Abuja Court the removal of Senator Uzodimma as the governor of Imo State. The court had vacated the suit, saying that Chikwendu had no locus standi to institute the legal tussle. The party, in a statement signed by its Publicity Secretary, Ogubundu Nwadike, said that since the publication of the report, it had been inundated with inquiries on the status of the suit. The statement said: “The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Imo State hereby clarifies that the legal matter is still on, in which the party seeks the Supreme Court to enforce its judgement on the status of the actual candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2019 Imo governorship election, and consequently the illegitimate occupation of the Office of the Governor of Imo State by the APC. “Our Party makes this clarification following our inundation with speculations by party leaders, stakeholders, members, supporters, and indeed a large number of people from Imo State and Nigeria at large on the suit by one Barr. Mcfyne C. Chikwendu, who claimed to be a concerned citizen, seeking in an Abuja Court the removal of Senator Uzodimma as the governor of Imo State. “That was the suit that was vacated by the Abuja Court, which declined the prayers of the applicant. “Our party restates here that while the matter that was declined was by the Abuja Court, the matter involving the PDP is at the Supreme Court, awaiting the hearing. “It is the petition by Chief Philip Umeadi SAN, joined by the PDP, asking the Supreme Court to enforce its judgement on the candidate of APC in the 2019 governorship election, in which Chief Uche Nwosu was recognized and disqualified by the Supreme Court as the authentic candidate of APC in the election. The PDP expressed optimism that whenever the matter is called up for hearing, the irreversible decision of the Supreme Court on the bonafide candidate of the APC in the 2019 Imo governorship election would be enforced.