Katsina State Governor, Aminu Bello Masari, has reiterated his resolve to retire from public office at the end of his tenure in 2023, saying he would focus on charity works to make his retirement simple and memorable. The governor made the disclosure at the launch of the Aminu Masari Youth Empowerment Foundation, AMAYEF, held in Katsina on Thursday. “As the journey towards 2023 is getting closer, I chose to make my retirement from public office simple and memorable by identifying with the needs and aspirations of the youth and the less privileged in our society. That is what the foundation is all about. “Being the most energetic and active segment of the society, the youths have a great role in shaping the future of any nation, especially at this critical moment. “The quality of youth groomed in any society has a direct correlation with the opportunities provided to them by the privileged few as a way of giving back to the society. “This is the vision behind setting up the Aminu Masari Youth Empowerment Foundation as my humble contribution to humanity,” the governor has said. Masari then urged wealthy individuals in the country to give back to society by supporting youths, women, orphans, and physically challenged persons to become self-reliant and productive. Masari said the foundation would serve as a medium to provide support to the youth in areas of empowerment to reduce redundancy and medical outreach for the less privileged as well as mentorship opportunities through training exercises in various businesses and crafts. During the occasion, 200 wheelchairs were distributed to physically challenged people drawn from the 34 local government areas of the State. In his remarks, the Chairman Board of Trustees of the foundation, Alhaji Kabir Mashi, said the foundation would obtain a database of youths and less privileged people in the State to support them with skills acquisition training programmes and business kits to become self-reliant. He said, as part of its objectives, the foundation would also provide free medical outreach and organise regular mentorship training and empowerment programmes for youths in all parts of the State. Some of the physically challenged people, who received the customized wheelchairs, thanked Governor Masari for launching the foundation and appealed to other wealthy individuals to also support them to make them self-reliant.