A former governor of Zamfara State, Abdul’aziz Yari, has rejected the interim committee appointed to steer the affairs of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. The interim committee was inaugurated by the national leadership of the party. Governor Mai Buni, chairman of the national caretaker committee of the party, had dissolved the APC exco in the state ahead of the defection of Governor Bello Matawalle. Prior to the development, Yari was the leader of ruling party in Zamfara. Following the crisis that trailed the defection of Matawalle, Buni inaugurated a three-man committee to take charge of the party in the state. But Yari, who accused Buni of mischief, rejected the committee. In an interview with BBC, he said the dissolution of the party leadership in Zamfara was ill-thought. The former governor said Buni has no power to dissolve the leadership under his control, saying the action could trigger another crisis in the party. He also alleged that the appointed interim leaders of Zamfara APC were not genuine members of the party. Yari also said if the members of the party failed to unite the party could plunge into disquiet he therefore asked that there is need to patch it and stay clear of anything that could destroy the party. One of the interim committee’s mandates is to renew the party’s registration in Zamfara in which every member of APC in the state will renew their membership, old members inclusive. In his response to this, Yari, however, pronounced that dissolution of the old and genuine membership and replacing it with the new one is a violation of the party’s constitution. He threatened to take legal action against the process. Interim committee in Zamfara reacts The chairman of the interim committee responsible for brokering peace within Zamfara State APC and renewal of the party’s membership, Senator Nasiha, faulted the allegations levelled by Yari. He told the BBC that as long as Yari is objecting the leadership of the interim committee is tantamount to denunciation of the national leadership of their party. On the allegation that they’re not members of APC, Senator Nasiha, said that they’re registered by the national chairman Mai Mala Buni even before he officially assigned us to go and discharge our duty. He added that there’s no distinct between those that have spent 50 years in the party and those that joined the party today. National leadership stance Commenting on the recent crisis brewing in Zamfara State, the national leadership of APC maintained that it didn’t violate any regulations of the party insisting that these decisions were taken in good faith and meant to achieve consensus agreement within its members in the state. National Press Director of APC, Malam Salisu Na`inna Danbatta, said that before the dissolution of party’s leadership in Zamfara State which was subsequently supplanted with the caretaker committee after Governor Matawalle’s defection, ”all stakeholders in the state were duly consulted.