Prof Wole Soyinka, Nobel Laureate, has accused the Federal Government of kidnapping Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous Peoples Biafra (IPOB) The literary icon said this in an interview with BBC Pidgin on Monday. According to him,  there would be an uproar in the country if the truth of how Kanu was arrested is known. Soyinka said, “It’s not for me to tell the president to prepare himself because it’s going to be a huge squawk when the truth about how Kanu was arrested comes out. People are alleging this or that. “That is one phase whether Nigeria has acted outside international law.
“The second issue, however, has to do with Kanu’s conduct outside the nation. “There’s been a level of hate rhetoric which has been unfortunate, from Kanu. Hate rhetoric is an issue that can only be judged by the laws of any nation. “Was it right ‘to have been kidnapped?’ You can say intercepted as much as you want but I think Kanu was kidnapped. That is wrong internationally and morally.” The Nobel Laureate said the federal government was eager to arrest Kanu but has not shown the same eagerness in going after bandits and insurgents. He said, “The government can not wash itself clean on what seems to be a kind of comparative energy in pursuing the destabilised forces in the nation. “If we take ourselves back, once when I threw a challenge to Buhari, what I expect from a true leader is to issue an order, give a deadline that any illegal occupant of any villages, farms is given 48hours to quit after which the mighty forces of the nation will be unleashed on them. It was ignored. “Years later, he came to say ‘we will respond to these people in the language they understand’. This is what I expected him to have said years ago, at the beginning of the insurgency. “Their leadership–the Miyetti Allah — should have been arrested years ago, long before IPOB was declared a terrorist organisation.”
He accused the federal government to the activities of Miyetti Allah to go on unchecked, saying the government has refused to “mount the same energy against them. “So people are right to say there has been an unequal and irregular approach to security and enforcement in this nation.” He called on the federal government to stop the blame game and take action.