The North Central Progressive Group (NCGP) has said that those who would be 60 years and above by 2023 should steer clear of the Presidency or be barred in the region. The group at a media briefing on Tuesday in Abuja pegged the maximum years of 60 for the Presidency said that many Nigerians who held political power in the past were youths. The leaders of the forum, Benjamin Sanni, Felix Tolorunju and Aisha Uju Okoye, who jointly addressed reporters said that the region has what it takes to govern Nigeria among her youth population. They said that while the region is still asking all political parties and zones to cede the 2023 presidency to the North Central, any aspirants older than 60 at the time of the quest should forget coming up for the Presidency in the region. Benjamin Sani said that the legitimate quest was anchored on the need for the region to have a sense of belonging than be marginalized from the presidency. According to him, the region was prepared, and this can be seen from the performance of the immediate past President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki. He noted that it was the highest office ever occupied in a democracy by the North Central zone hence their quest for the Presidency for the region in 2023. He added that the former governor of Niger State, Babangida Aliyu, are some of the brilliant minds that have come from the region. “When you talk about readiness, we in the North Central have intelligent People, we have been twice Senate President from the North-Central, we have delivered remarkable result. We are ready, the former governor of Niger state, Babangida Aliyu, is there, we have the likes of Governor Yahaya Bello in Kogi State, so is Abubakar Saraki from Kwara State. “We have credible people who can deliver Nigeria from chaos, whatever or how it is. We are agitating for the Presidency to be zoned to North Central, because our region is being marginalized. North Central will take Nigeria to where the country has been praying to be. We are agitating that from sixty downward will deliver Nigeria,” Sani said. He added that people who held power in the past in the country started at their tender age, thus anyone above 60 by 2023 should forget the Presidency.