The Independent National  Electoral Commission (INEC) has said that 203,497 eligible Nigerians have completed the online pre-registration as fresh voters in the last one week since the ongoing Continuous Voter Registration (CVR) which commenced online on 28 June 2021. National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee (IVEC) Festus Okoye said this on Tuesday in Abuja after the management meeting of the commission. According to him, as at 7am of Monday, 5 July 2021, one week after the commencement of the exercise, 203,497 eligible Nigerians have completed the online pre-registration as fresh voters. “The figure rises to 259,713 if applications for voter transfer, requests for replacement of Permanent Voters’ Cards (PVCs), and update of voter information record among others are included. “For emphasis, the physical or in-person registration is scheduled to commence in all our state and local government offices nationwide on Monday 19 July 2021. “Eligible Nigerians who wish to register physically and those who have scheduled their appointments to complete their online pre-registration will have the opportunity to do so,” Okoye said. He said that both online pre-registration and the physical registration will go on simultaneously throughout the duration of the CVR and that further details of the schedule of activities and locations for the physical  exercise will be made available next week. He added that the online pre-registration services are for those who are 18 years and above and have never registered; registered voters who have had any problem during the accreditation for past elections, with either their Permanent Voters’ Cards (PVC) or fingerprints not being read by the Smart Card Reader (SCR). Others were registered voters who want to transfer their voting location from one place to another; registered voters who want to correct issues with their data, such as misspelt names, dates of birth among others; and registered voters whose PVCs are lost or damaged. He urged every eligible Nigerian to seize the opportunity of the online pre-registration or the in-person option to register as a voter.