Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), was detained in Kenya for eight days, according to Ifeanyi Ejiofor, his lawyer. Ejiofor made the claim after he visited the IPOB leader in the Department of State Services (DSS) custody on Friday. Kanu has been in DSS custody since he was extradited to the country. The Federal Government had refused to disclose the location of Kanu’s arrest but Kingsley Kanu, his brother, had said his brother was arrested in Kenya. But the Director-General of Kenyan Immigration Services, Alexander Muteshi, denied knowledge of Kanu’s arrest. However, on Thursday, Ejiofor gave an update of his encounter with Kanu. “My Client – Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, was actually abducted by the accursed Kenya’s Special Police Force on the 18th of June 2021 at their International Airport and consequently taken to an undisclosed residence under dehumanizing conditions. “He was tortured and subjected to all forms of inhuman treatment which worsened his health condition. He was illegally detained for eight (8) good DAYS in Kenya before being transferred to their Nigerian counterparts. “He was purportedly investigated on a bogus charge while in their custody, ostensibly, awaiting to be handed over after their findings proved him innocent of all the spurious allegations. They later beckoned on their Nigerian counterparts to take over. “Kenyan Government was deeply involved in the abduction, detention and ill-treatment of my Client before the illegal handover to their Nigerian counterpart. “A scan of his heart showed that the heart has enlarged by 13% due to the dehumanising treatment meted to him. There will be need for immediate proper medical examination and attention for him. “Mazi Nnamdi Kanu conveyed his goodwill message to all IPOB family members worldwide, and craved for your unrelentless prayers. “We are going back to the Court for the needful. Other details cannot be entertained here. His fortified legal team will address these infractions at the proper forum as we progress. Other details on our legal strategy, may not be made public. “With Chukwuokike Abiama on our side, Victory is assured. For if God Almighty be for us, who can be against us? #freeMaziNnamdiKanu#”