The National Universities Commission (NUC) has approved King David University of Medical Sciences in Ebonyi State. The administration of Governor David Umahi established the institution, which is the 197th University in Nigeria. In a statement, the Ebonyi State government said, “The King David University of Medical Sciences (KDUMS) Uburu, Ohaozara LGA, Ebonyi State is designed as an ultra-modern 21st century state-of-the-art International Medical University. The University’s central goal is for specialized manpower development in the most conducive environment in all aspects of medical specialties with the highest form of professionalism, ethics and excellence. “The University is established with the vision and mission that are consistent with the Nigerian National Health Policy (NHP) and Strategy which is targeted at achieving Health for All Nigerians. The University is programmed to provide the manpower needs to address the challenge of human resources for health in line with new global realities and trends that aligns with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and emerging health issues, particularly with respect to global health challenges (eg., Covid-19 pandemic). “The vision of The University is to achieve the highest form of quality manpower development for healthcare and other service delivery for all persons irrespective of gender, race, religion, and socio-economic status. “The mission of the University is to serve mankind with the highest form of professionalism, ethics and excellence by training highly qualified health professionals who will work to improve health conditions, alleviate sickness, suffering and pain through the provision of high quality, efficient, cost-effective and integrated healthcare with compassion and treatment.” Below are the courses offered by the university. (1). Medicine & Surgery,
(2). Nursing,
(3). Medical Laboratory Science,
(4). Pharmacy,
(5). Physiotherapy,
(6). Health Policy & Health Systems,
(7). Hospital Administration,
(8). Dentistry,
(9). Optometry,
(10). Human Anatomy,
(11). Physiology,
(12). Biochemistry,
(13). Microbiology/Parasitology,
(14). Biomedical Engineering,
(15). Public Health,
(16). Human Nutrition/Dietetics,
(17). Radiography/Radiation Sciences,
(18). Traditional, Complementary and Integrative Medicine,
(19). Industrial Physics/Astronomy
(20). Industrial Mathematics/Statistics
(21). Industrial Chemistry
(22). Applied Biology/Biotechnology
(23). Computer Science