The Federal Road Safety Corps of Nigeria (FRSC) recruitment portal is currently open. The corps is seeking to hire Road Marshal Assistant, Marshal Inspector, and Officer Cadre. Interested applicants are advised to go through the requirements below before they start application process. RMA Cadre 1- a. Road Marshal Assistant I Qualifications
i. Junior Community Health Extension Worker (JCHEW).
ii. Statement of Result not beyond 5years. 2- b. Road Marshal Assistant II Qualifications Minimum of five (5) credits in SSCE (GCE/WAEC/NECO/NABTEB) which must include English Language and Mathematics. 3- c. Road Marshal Assistant III Qualifications Minimum of three (3) credits in SSCE (GCE/WAEC/NECO/NABTEB). Artisans and Tradesmen Artisans and Tradesmen may apply under this category. Those applying for the posts of Computer Operators, Drivers, Mechanics, Motorcycle Riders, Electricians, Instrumentalists, Tailors, Plumbers, Sportsmen etc must possess the following: i. A minimum of 4 passes in SSCE (GCE/WAEC/NECO/NABTEB).
ii. Trade Test and or other professional Certificates. iii. Drivers and Riders must have the appropriate class of Driver’s Licence. MA Cadre 1- a. Marshal Inspector I
Qualifications Applicants must possess the following from recognized institutions:
i. Double qualification RN/RM, Accident & Emergency Nurses, Pediatric Nurses, Anesthetic Nurses, Orthopedic Nurses, Radiographic Nurses from recognized institutions. ii. Statement of Result not beyond 5years.
2- b. Marshal Inspector II Qualifications Applicants must possess the following from recognized institutions:
i. Nigerian Certificate of Education (NCE) in relevant disciplines. ii. Registered Nurse/Midwife (RN/RM). iii. Statement of Result not beyond 5years. 3- c. Marshal Inspector III Qualifications Applicants must possess the following from recognized institutions: i. National Diploma (ND)/ Senior Community Health Extension Workers Certificate (CHEW). ii. Statement of Result not beyond 5 years. Officer Cadre Qualification: Candidates must possess the following:
i. First Degree/HND from recognized Institutions of learning. ii. NYSC Discharge Certificate/Exemption Certificate. Interested and qualified candidates can apply here.