A group, Macheebis Technology, on Saturday in Ilorin unveiled a Christian Reality Television Show, tagged “Bible Stars TV show”, to propagate the gospel of Jesus Christ and increase the knowledge of people in the Bible. Winner of the show will be crowned ‘Bible Man of the Year’. The visioner of the programme, Bectta Efe, said that the show was to change the narrative from promoting immoral shows, noting that the word of God is lacking in the lives of Christians. “Without the scripture, a Christian lives the life of hypocrisy. This is beyond just a show of entertainment, it is to propagate the gospel of Christ. “To entertain does not have to promote immorality and evil vices, we need good content,” he said. Remilekun Banire, the state Commissioner for Environment, who represented the Deputy Governor, Kayode Alabi, said that the programme would reduce immorality in the society. Alabi commended the organisers of the reality show, adding that it is an initiative at a time when the nation needed it most. “It is no longer news that these days people celebrate immorality, and programmes like this will enable youths watch religious shows. “It will not only broaden their knowledge of the Bible but also instill morals into them,” the deputy governor said. He therefore urged parents to ensure child training while admonishing youths to be patient, hardworking and persevere in their endeavours. Most Rev. Paul Olawore, the Chairman, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) in Kwara, said the show was a way to wage war against the kingdom of darkness and proclaim God’s kingdom. The Chairperson, Women Wing of the Christian Association of Nigeria (WOWICAN), Maria Bukoye, commended the organisers of the programme, urging youths to engage their youthfulness toward knowing more and serving God. Ajayi Okasanmi, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, said that the programme was a way of reducing crime in the society. Okasanmi said that the police was ready to employ any means possible to reduce crime in the society. “The social media has contributed in no little way to the increase of crime in the society. “We may not be able to eliminate crime, but we can reduce it and the police is ready to key into this TV show in order to preach morals and sanity to our society. “I commend the organisers of the programme and I pray that it will be used to the glory of God,” he said. Praise Adelokun, a youth who spoke with the  News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), said the programme was timely to divert the attention of people, especially youths, from watching shows that were not beneficial to their spiritual life. Adelokun appealed to religious leaders and organisations to fill in the gap for the reorientation of youths for a saner generation. “I am really happy about this programme, it will engage us the youth in things more meaningful, especially studying more of the word of God. “The problems we have in the society today are a result of lack of the knowledge of God. We do not read the Bible and we do not obey the word of God. “I am happy because this programme will increase the desire for the word of God in people,” he said. (NAN)