The Ogun State House of Assembly has passed a bill banning open grazing. The bill, which was passed at plenary on Thursday, puts offenders at the risk of three years jail term. Southern governors had during their last meeting in Lagos fixed September as deadline for open grazing practice, a development which has been subject of controversy. However, few days after the Southern governors meeting, the Ogun assembly passed the Animal Grazing Regulation and Cattle Ranch Establishment Bill 2020 into law. The lawmakers said this would address incessant clashes between herders and famers. Long title of the bill reads, “HB No. 045/OG/2021- A Law to Regulate Animal Grazing, Establishment of Cattles Ranches in Designated Grazing Areas of Ogun State and for other Matters incidental thereto and connected therewith.” The bill scaled the third reading and final passage following the presentation of the report of the House Committee on Agriculture by the Sponsor, Ganiyu Oyedeji, at a plenary presided over by the Speaker, Olakunle Oluomo. Oyedeji, thereafter, moved the motion for the adoption of the report, seconded by Hon. Olusola Adams, and supported by other lawmakers through a voice vote. The legal framework was later read and adopted clause-by-clause. Thereafter, the Majority Leader, Yusuf Sheriff, moved the motion for the third reading as it was seconded by Hon Wahab Haruna. The Clerk of the House and Head of Legislative Services, Deji Adeyemo, took the third reading of the bill before the lawmakers. Part of a section of the bill prescribed a jail term of not less than three years without the option of fine “including the forfeiture of the herds of cattle or livestock under his/her control to the State Government for anyone who rears, herd or grazes any livestock in any part of the State except within the permitted ranches or anyone who rears cattle or livestock outside the permitted ranches after the commencement of the law.” Responding, Oluomo directed that the Clerk to prepare a clean copy of the bill for the assent of Governor Dapo Abiodun.