The Nigerian Tulip International Colleges (NTIC) is offering N180m full scholarship for 26 Nigerian students seeking entry into Senior Secondary School (SSS) 1 across the country in the college. The NTIC, which is one of the leading international secondary schools in the country, said the scholarship covers tuition and boarding fees up to university. The Managing Director, NTIC, Mr. Kamil Feyzullah, said in a statement on Monday in Abuja, that the scholarship is opened to students who are currently in Junior Secondary School 3 in any school across the country and are eager to proceed to SSS1. The statement titled, “100% Full Scholarship Offered By NTIC For Entry Into SS1”, stated that the aims and objective of the scholarship scheme is to contribute to the “educational development of our society and country. It is also meant to strengthen the accomplishment of gifted students and ensure the realization of the Corporate social responsibility of NTIC.” On eligibility for the scholarship, the statement said that eligible students for this scholarship scheme are the students who are currently in Junior Secondary School three (JSS 3) in both private and public schools in Nigeria and are prospective students for Senior Secondary School One (SS1). “These sets of students must have participated in the Scholarship organized examinations by NTIC. The selection of students for the awarding of the Scholarship will be based on the scholarship examination results,” Feyzullah said. On the scholarship exam procedure, the statement said that the scholarship examination is date for the first-round will be on 24 July 2021; second round arrival 23 August; and departure date is 27 August. He said, “The scholarship examination will take place in two phases of general and the qualifying phase. Only the successful students will be awarded and be a beneficiary of the scholarship scheme.” He also said that the expected age bracket for qualifying students is between 13 years and 14 years, with the students to provide their birth certificates and school identification documents from their schools to prove their ages and identities. He said the exam card fee will be N1000 and that the first round of the examination would be in Mathematics, English, aptitude, and Basic Science. “They will be gathered in Abuja and taught Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Biology, and English classes for three days. On the last day, students will take an exam in all subjects and pass an interview. The students with the highest scores will pass to the second round,” he said.