 An Anambra State High Court sitting in Awka, the state capital, yesterday ordered the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to list Senator Ugochukwu Uba as the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the November 6 governorship election in the state. The court presided over by Justice Obiora Nwabunike gave the order  in a matter brought before it by Senator Ugochukwu Uba against Mr Valentine Ozigbo, the  state  chapter of the PDP and INEC. According to the court order, Uba’s faction of the party held its primary election in line with the guidelines of the party and should therefore be listed as the governorship candidate. The court also awarded a cost of N10 million against Ozigbo and PDP, to be paid to Uba as cost of litigation. However, the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) has constituted its campaign council ahead of the November 6, 2021 governorship election in Anambra State. The state governor, Willie Obiano is  chairman of the campaign council, while APGA’s national chairman, Victor Oye is deputy chairman. Prof Chukwuma Soludo is the party’s candidate for the election. According to the list released yesterday by the party’s national chairman, Prof Solo Chukwulobelu is the director-general of the council, while Primus Odili is the campaign secretary, finance and administration. Similarly, the party’s national publicity secretary, Tex Okechukwu, said the state deputy governor, Dr. Nkem Okeke; national secretary, Dr. Labaran Maku; former national chairman, Senator Victor Umeh; former deputy governor, Chinedu Emeka, all members of the Board of Trustees (BoT) and all current members of the National Assembly, are members of the campaign council. At the state level, Chinedu Obidigwe is deputy general manager operations, strategy and security, while Don Adinuba is in charge of media and communication. APGA has also hailed a Court order, directing INEC to restore its candidate, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo as the party’s candidate for the November 6 governorship election in the state.