Facial hair is one of the skin issues faced by few women in the world. Hair growth can be caused by hormonal changes or genetics. Because the facial skin is very sensitive, it’s advised that to research what hair removal procedure will work best for your skin and give optimal results. One can use a few procedures when considering de-fuzzing either their eyebrows, chin, upper lip, face, etc. Waxing: Waxing is one of the most effective ways of hair removal. They’re two types of waxing where one includes using a wax strip and the other involves applying melted wax onto the affected area and stripping it out. Before waxing, it’s advisable to always do a patch test on the skin to see if prone to any allergic reaction and to make sure the wax is at the right temperature. After waxing, it takes two to three weeks for the hairs to grow back. Tweezing: This is another effective and inexpensive method of hair removal. It involves using a tweezer to pull out the hair from the roots. Compared to shaving, tweezing a preferable option as the hair is plucked out from the roots. When tweezing, always remember to sanitize your tweezers with an alcohol-based disinfectant before and after plucking out the hairs. However, tweezing can lead to ingrown hairs. Epilation: Epilation is another safe method for hair removal using an epilator. The difference between epilation and tweezing is that an epilator grabs multiple hairs at once, unlike tweezing where the hair is pulled out singularly. Because the hair is plucked out from the roots, it takes a while for the hair to grow back and with epilation, hair that grow back are often softer and less visible. Compared to tweezing, epilation is a painful method and individuals are advised to apply ice cube on affected areas to reduce swelling and inflammation. Threading: Threading is a hair removal method that is mostly used on the eyebrows and upper lip. Threading involves using a thread that will pull and twist out the hair until it comes out from the roots. Results from this method last longer than shaving or tweezing and it also doesn’t lead to ingrown hair. Laser hair removal: This method uses pulsed light to weaken the hair follicle. With this method, hair that grows over time will be thinner and lighter than before and eventually will stop growing. Laser treatment is best suitable for people who have light and fuzzy hairs. With laser removal. Hair growth is minimal and almost dormant. Electrolysis: Unlike laser treatment which attends to large areas of hair growth, electrolysis caters to areas such as upper lip, chin etc. This involves using an electric current with a very fine needle-shaped electrode or metal probe to zap the hairs individually. The electrolysis method is said the be the best method for facial hair removal as it leaves no scars and hair growth is dormant after the procedure.