Two years after announcing its partnership with the auto giant, the Renault Group of France, Coscharis Motors Plc, a subsidiary of Coscharis Group has rolled out two nameplates of the Renault brand – Renault Logan and Renault Duster – from its assembly plant at Awoyaya Lagos. It would be recalled that the Renault brands were showcased at the recently held 15th Motor Fair in Lagos to the excitement of auto stakeholders. Coscharis spokesman, Abiona Babarinde, in a statement said, “If you recall in July 2019 we formally announced our partnership with the Renault Group to represent their auto brands in Nigeria. We equally showcased our ultra-modern Semi-Knocked-Down assembly plant located at our Group Head office in Awoyaya, Lagos. “These two locally-assembled nameplates are among the five models that include Renault Kwid, Renault Koleos and Renault Oroch respectively on display under the Renault brand.” Coscharis Motors equally unveiled its ‘giveaway’ promotion for any purchase of the Renault Kwid and Renault Koleos that attracts a free Abro Generator, 5% discount, free insurance, free vehicle registration and free vehicle service for the first two servicing. This is coupled with the ease of purchase through flexible finance schemes from Coscharis Mobility, Polaris Bank and other upcoming finance institutions that are finance partners to Coscharis Motors. Duster has a range from 1.6-Litre to 2.0Litre engine but whichever engine, it is built with a robust off-roader looks. With the superb ground clearance, the Duster is a practical and durable vehicle for the Nigerian road. The Logan has an even more modern and dynamic design. With redesigned front and rear end panels featuring the new Renault brand light signature, the new Renault Logan is a beauty to behold. Commenting on the locally assembled vehicles, the Director General of the Nigeria Automotive Design and Development Council, Mr. Jelani Aliyu, who expressed optimism that the auto policy is working said, “I am excited to see that Coscharis Motors has assembled these vehicles in Nigeria.”