A fibre optic infrastructure and telecom service company, Phase3 Telecom, has deployed free fibre broadband to serve the International Centre for Islamic Culture and Education (ICICE) and An-Noor mosque in Abuja. The Executive Chairman of Phase3, Mr Stanley Jegede, who inaugurated the free broadband in the company of the company’s management team in Abuja at the weekend, said it was part of the company’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative. Jegede said Phase3 was committed to using its telecom and technology prowess for sustainable good of the society. “Through education, tech skill building and free smart connectivity programmes specific vehicles for empowering identified communities and institutions,” the executive chairman said. He said Phase3 would further support ICICE with its infrastructure layered technology solutions including cloud and cyber security solutions that will enhance the centre’s virtual lectures, video conferencing and sundry activities. In his keynote address, the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy Dr. Isa Ali Pantami, lauded the initiative as one that is well aligned with the Federal Government’s digital economy policies and National Broadband Plan (NBP) 2020 – 2025. Pantami said the NBP was designed to encourage and foster more ICT collaborations for sustainable access to the internet and broadband services as well as digital literacy. The minister enjoined ICICE to maximize the opportunity of Phase3 free fibre broadband deployment for learning, research and training. He also advise the institution’s management to imbibe a consistent maintenance culture that the access provisioned requires for optimal performance. Apart from Pantami, other dignitaries at the event were the Group Managing Director (GMD) of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC ), Mele Kolo Kyari; the Managing Director, National Petroleum Telecommunications Limited, Mr Sanusi Yerima; and the Director General, National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), Mr Kashifu Inuwa Abdullahi. Other were Chairman ICICE Board of Trustees, Professor Ibrahim Sulaiman; Chairman Al-Noor Academy Board of Directors, Dr Mohammed Dada; Ag. Director General & Director Arts Counseling and Culture, Sheikh Abdulfattah Adeyemi and Chief Imam, ICICE Al-Noor Mosque, Sheikh Mahamat Saleh.