The Presidency, through the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), has commenced moves to probe the privatisation of several automotive firms including Peugeot, Kaduna; Nigeria Truck Manufacturing, Kano; ANAMMCO, among others, Daily Trust can report. To this end, three committees have been set up to assess the performance of the industry in relation to privatised enterprises. The teams, it was learnt, were assigned to different auto firms across the country. The first team led by Prof. Abiodun Aibinu of the Federal University of Technology, Minna has Aisha Dalhatu of NADDC and Mrs. Felicia Onyeabor of Innoson as members. Its terms of reference include to: “Ensure the enactment of statutes that will entrench the NAIDP and the National Industrial Revolution Plan (NIRP) as a demonstration by the government of commitment to nurture and grow the industry; “Develop policies that will encourage the establishment and growth of local component supply companies to attract Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs). Peugeot Automobile, Kaduna and Nigeria Truck Manufacturing, Kano have been assigned to the team. Team two is led by Engr. Bede Obayi of the Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON) with Abubakar Hardo of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS); Samuel Adetoro of the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment and Abdulazeez Mafindi of the BPE as members. The team assigned to visit ANAMMCO, Enugu, Steyr, Bauchi and INNOSON Motors, Enugu has its terms of reference including: “Ensure access to concessionary funds for Vehicle Assembly Plants from Bank of Industry, Bank of Infrastructure and the Automotive Development Fund; “Ensure the development of policies that would engender healthy private sector demand through concessionary loans to acquire locally assembled automobiles.” Predicated on the above ToR, the Committee should recommend other means of attracting new investors into the sector. The third team led by Luqman Mamudu of Transtech Industrial Consulting has Mr. Maduka of Coscharis, Engr. Ibitayo Afolabi of the Federal Ministry of Finance and Azuka Ezeife of BPE as members. The team assigned to Volkswagen, Lagos and Leyland, Ibadan is charged with the responsibility to proffer “How to support the mass transit and agricultural policies of the FGN and that some of the Urban Mass Transit Vehicles and Tractors should be sourced from the nation’s vehicle assembly plants. In collaboration with the Central Bank of Nigeria, the team is to ensure preferential allotment of foreign currency for the importation of inputs. The third investigation team visited VWON in Lagos where Stallion group assembles Ashok Leyland Trucks, amongst others. The team leader in Lagos who spoke with our correspondent said the ongoing mandate was “to survey the industry and prescribe solutions to the government.” 