The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has it will auction the Fifth Generation Technology (5G) spectrum by December this year. Executive Vice-Chairman (EVC) of the NCC, Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, disclosed this at the maiden International Conference on Information and Engineering Systems (ICIES) on Thursday in Abuja, a statement by the commission said on Thursday. “The following timeline is proposed as optimal in the policy document 5G Spectrum Allocation (Q2 2021) 5G Spectrum Auction (Q4 2021) 5G Spectrum Assignment (Q1 2022) and  Commercialisation of 5G Spectrum (Q4 2022), Danbatta who was represented by Director of Technical Standard, Mr Bako Wakil, said. He said securing spectrum for 5G is an antecedent for any operator to commit serious investment to 5G infrastructure. He noted that for the process of the allocation auctioning, assigning and commercialisation of 5G spectrum to be seamless and successful, the Federal Government must provide an enabling environment. The EVC, who spoke on the topic “5G Deployment: Catalyst for Digital Transformation in Nigeria”, also noted that researches and tests had been carried out on the hazardous impact of electromagnetic emissions from 5G and that they were far below the minimum required standard. He, however, expressed optimism that 5G indeed was a catalyst for digital transformation in Nigeria and around the world, as it would digitalise and greatly impact the economy of the country. He said: “The plan to deploy 5G technology creates need for study of the electromagnetic radiation levels which will be generated by the 5G infrastructure. “These tests were conducted in accordance with the International Commission on Non-lonizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP) Guidelines for general public exposure to time varying electromagnetic fields. “The results of the test show that radiation from 5G infrastructure is far below the ICNIRP specification for protection of members of the public and therefore, suggest that no public health hazards are expected from the use of 5G in Nigeria.”“ Earlier, the Vice Chancellor, Nile University, Prof. Osman Aras, explained that the conference would provide an enabling platform for students, researchers and professionals in the industry to share views on current research work for advancement of knowledge, technology and multidisciplinary research.