Stallion Motors has unveiled Changan Hunter pickup and minibuses in Nigeria. The pickup was jointly built by Changan Auto and Groupe PSA – the second largest car manufacturer in Europe. The two-trim Changan minibuses are said to be targeted at meeting the needs of commercial transporters, as well as Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and logistic concerns. The Changan Hunter, a Chinese truck with European DNA, and its minibus siblings, premiered in Lagos recently. Stallion Motors’ Head of Sales and Marketing, Vijay Singh, told newsmen that the launch was aimed at serving the Nigerian business community and government with vehicles that combined quality and ruggedness, with affordability. On the minibuses, he said, “Available for sale in Nigeria are two-trim minibuses: Star 9 and Star 5, each named according to seating capacity. “Positioned as a leader for both business passengers and urban logistics, the Star 5 and Star 9 are a new generation of highly efficient commercial vehicles powered by C10 1000cc engine tuned up to withstand daily rigours of commercial transportation. “Both minibus versions come with electric power steering, power windows and central locking system.” Singh added that the new Hunter displayed uncommon characteristics, especially stunning design, intelligent safety features and ruggedness, making it the right truck for Nigerian roads, “Engineered to scale through the PSA-CHANGAN ‘CA-TVS’ dual system verification, the 2021 Hunter did not only meet the strictest European standard, its total galvanised process guarantees 10 years anti-corrosion.” According to him, the Hunter comes with an exciting feature known as forest air purification system, which means, no matter how harsh the road environment outside the van, Hunter will maintain fresh air, thereby providing drivers and passengers with a comfortable and healthy experience. The Changan Hunter comes with a 2.4-litre turbo patrol engine with manual and automatic transmission equipped with high end features like lead lamps, premium leather seats, reverse camera, cruise control, push button start, rear AC vent, 10-inch display with touch screen and bed liner with 226 millimetre (mm) ground clearance. As a wide body, large pickup jointly created through Chinese and European cooperation, Changan Hunter was incorporated with international perspectives at the beginning of its design. Crafted with amazing features of unmatched quality, Changan Hunter pickup is 5330mm long, 1930mm wide and 1,835mm tall. In the process of designing the pickup, the skilled and creative Changan design team fashioned muscular interior and exterior curves to convey surging power, which explains why the truck exudes uncommon character and charm. Available in different colours, including white, grey, silver and blue, Changan Hunter comes with a big grille, encapsulating the brand’s logo, under which there is protection for rough road environments. Incredibly, the Hunter is heavily equipped for safety and comfort. Installed on its cargo area is a rear view camera and a rear parking sensor. On board, the driver is faced with easily accessible control buttons and functions, a rear view camera monitor, automatic climate control, along with very comfortable seats and seat belts for safety. In addition to a strong and out-of-the-ordinary design, the Hunter stands as the best in its category with cargo capacity of one tonne, coupled with interior that creates an exceptional driving experience. With an 80-litre capacity fuel tank, the Hunter supports 1,000km supper driving mileage. To ensure the best overall performance, the chassis tuning of Changan Hunter is jointly done by the Changan Detroit R&D Centre and the Global R&D Centre. Aboard the Hunter pickup, everything is under control with impressive Hill Hold Control (HHC) and Hill Descent Assist Control (HDC), while its 226mm minimum ground clearance is no doubt an assurance for comfortable and safe motoring on Nigerian roads.