More auto firms are investing heavily in electric vehicle production described as the future of automobiles. One of the recently revealed EV offerings is the Nissan Ariya. This is a high-tech electric SUV with a 310-mile range. It comes with styling that’s not changed dramatically from the 2019’s concept car of the same name. Nissan joined the SUVs market segment in 2016 with the launch of the Qashqai. The company however in its latest statement, said the Ariya is “the ultimate expression of style and technology.” Power and Range Power comes from two electric motors, but their output, range and how many wheels they drive depends on which model you choose. Even the entry-level two-wheel drive 63 kilowatts hour (kWh) model can take you 223 miles between charges and punts out 215bhp, though. There’s an 87kWh version of the Ariya above that, with range increased to 310 miles and power boosted to 239bhp, and then versions of both cars with Nissan’s new e-4orce four-wheel drive system (and lower ranges consequently) too. Then at the very top of the range sits the Ariya e-4orce 87kWh Performance, which offers up to 389bhp and a range of 248 miles. In terms of charging, lower-powered versions of the Ariya include a 7.4kW charging cable, while the more powerful versions come with a 22kW three-phase charger. The Ariya can also support charging up to 130kW. The Ariya comes with a V-Motion grille which features a 3D pattern with the brand’s new logo that lightens up thanks to 20 LEDs. For even more style, Nissan is offering six two-tone paint and four full-body colour combinations, among them the signature Copper paint. A black roof is included with two-tone paint. A set of sporty 19-inch aluminium wheels come standard and the 20-inches are optional. Space and Price Two-wheel drive versions of the Ariya have 466 litres of space available in their boots enabling the user to pack more holiday luggage but the four-wheel drive versions of the Ariya have less space. Within the interior, there are two large 12.3-inch displays for the infotainment screen and driver’s instrument gauge cluster. It comes with Apple CarPlay, Android Auto, and Amazon Alexa. The slim profile Zero Gravity seats help provide additional legroom for both front- and rear-seat passengers. The Ariya’s EV platform made it easy for engineers to free up cabin space in unique ways, such as mounting the climate control system under the hood where a combustion engine would have been. A transmission tunnel also isn’t necessary with EVs and the Ariya’s flat floor generates even more passenger and cargo space.