The United Kingdom Government, through its UK-Nigeria Tech Hub, has launched a Green Tech programme, which will support 30 Nigerian female green-tech entrepreneurs with 12 weeks coaching sessions with industry experts. These coaching sessions would boost the capacity of the entrepreneurs, as well as the likelihood of the enterprises to scale and become more sustainable businesses, a statement by the British Deputy High Commission office said on Tuesday. The Hub, in collaboration with Future Females as the implementing partner, has taken this next step as part of its pledge to help drive clean, resilient and inclusive recoveries in Nigeria – shaping the low carbon economy of the future that will create new jobs, attract green investment and protect the environment for future generations. The programme, targeted at Nigerian female entrepreneurs with early-stage businesses aimed at protecting the environment and conserving natural resource, will run virtually for three months. It will cover 10 actionable modules that take entrepreneurs through the fundamental building blocks of starting and growing a GreenTech business, the statement added. Speaking on this, the British Deputy High Commissioner in Lagos, Ben Llewellyn-Jones said: “The UK, as a bilateral partner, is committed to supporting Nigeria in delivering an accelerated and just transition, not only to meet the climate imperative but to ensure the country is at the forefront of shifts in the global economy. Like the transition itself, this support is at all levels – from £200 million flowing into major clean technology programmes through International Climate Finance to entrepreneurs, to designing and developing small and micro-enterprise sustainable companies of the future.” The UK-Nigeria Tech Hub Interim Country Director, Lamide Johnson said: “Climate Change remains a priority for the UK-Government. We are pleased to have partnered with Future Females to help and support Green Tech Female Business entreprenuers in Nigeria who are tirelessly working hard to promote the use of technology to solve problems caused by climate change, and invariably promote a greener world.” Commenting on the GreenTech programme launch, Future Females Co-Founder, Cerina Bezuidenhout said: “At Future Females, we have always been passionate about supporting sustainable businesses, and we are very excited to be focusing on GreenTech businesses in our partnership with UK-Nigeria Tech Hub. The entrepreneurs who participate in our programmes are not just building businesses – they’re creating innovative solutions to real problems we’re facing in this ‘new’ world, and they are a source of hope for their communities – and we can’t wait to meet them.” The programme is set to commence on May 24, 2021 and applications to participate will close on May 7, 2021.