 Workers’ Day: Nigerian workers deserve to be celebrated – Gbajabiamila By Balarabe Alkassim The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila, has paid glowing tributes to Nigerian workers on this year’s Workers’ Day. Gbajabiamila, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi said, Nigerian workers are worthy of being celebrated. He noted that the Nigerian system remains stable due to the dedication and sacrifices of the workers. The Speaker said the welfare of workers would remain paramount on the government’s table. He added that, he was particularly elated by the resilience of Nigerian workers, whom he described as the bedrock of the society. He assured that, the 9th House of Representatives remains committed to improving the working conditions of workers through legislative interventions. He called on the workers to continue to give their best to the country, even as government must keep its side of the bargain to the workers.  Kogi NLC calls for improved welfare From Adama John, Lokoja Kogi state chapter of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has called on the state government to come up with a committee that will address the pathetic plight of the workers in the the state. Marking Workers Day celebration in the Confluence Stadium Lokoja Saturday, the state chairman of the Congress, comrade Onu Edoka said that the dehumanising percentage salary to both primary school teachers and local government councils workers is no longer acceptable. The labour leader who acknowledged the pathetic situation of workers in the state generally called on the government to address the aforementioned sectors of the economy with dispatch. According to him, the governor should be mindful of his lieutenants at the corridors of power that will not tell the him the true situation of workers in the state. Meanwhile, the Kogi State governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello has hailed Kogi State workers at all levels for their commitment to the collective growth, development and stability experienced in the various sectors of the state. This was contained in a press statement signed by the press secretary, Mohammed Onogwu in his special felicitation to commemorate with Kogi State workers on the occasion of the international worker’s day. The Governor noted that the State’s workforce formed the bedrock of administration and governance, hence if there was a dedicated, highly motivated and productive workforce, good governance would be further enhanced. He expressed his pleasure that the State as could boast of a highly productive workforce that has even gained recognition by national rating Agencies. Kano workers want review of retirement, as Ganduje absent from rally