President Muhammadu Buhari has returned to Abuja from Paris, France, after a four-day official visit to attend African Finance Summit. The President’s Personal Assistant on New Media Bashir Ahmad confirmed this Thursday on his official twitter handle @BashirAhmaad. “President Muhammadu Buhari has returned to Abuja after a successful African Finance Summit which focused on reviewing African economy, following the crisis caused by COVID-19 pandemic,” the tweet which was attached with the arrival photos read. During the trip, President Buhari and his French counterpart,  Emmanuel Macron committed their two nations to working together to fight insecurity bedeviling the Lake  Chad basin area and entire stretch of the Sahel region. President Macron of France promised his steadfast support for Nigeria and its people as they confront the security challenges facing the country. Macron spoke last Tuesday at a bilateral meeting, at which he hosted President Buhari on the sidelines of the Financing Africa Summit in Paris. He said the French government would absolutely be  there on the side of Nigeria and it is willing to support with everything to assist the country to overcome the security threats. He also promised to support Nigeria in confronting the challenges faced with COVID-19 vaccines. President Buhari, while speaking at the Financing Africa Summit held at Grande Palais Ephemere with the theme: “External Financing and debt Treatment”, called on European countries and global financial institutions to consider reducing devastating effect of the Coronavirus pandemic on African economies by restructuring debt portfolios and opting for complete reliefs. The President said the effect of the pandemic should also be reduced by releasing vaccines to the continent, which is still behind in protecting majority of its citizens. On Wednesday in Paris, when he held meetings with Chairman/CEO of Total, Patrick Pouyanne, Executive Vice President, AirBus, Silvere Delaunay, Chairman of the Board of a software company, Daussault Systems, Florence Verzelen, Chairman/CEO of General Engineering and Marketing of Telecommunications Operator, Francois-Regis Teze and Chairman/CEO, Donaflex Automotive, Dr Donatus Nwokoye, a very successful manufacturer, President Buhari called on investors to further explore vast opportunities of human and natural resources in Nigeria. He assured the investors that fiscal policies will be more favourable, predictable and measurably tilted towards creating harmonious business environment.