Association for Formidable Educational Development (AFED), one of the leading educational associations in Nigeria is partnering with Chronicles Software Development Company on the use of SuccessBOX, a premier application for self-study, CBT practice and learning on the go. SuccessBox is a 100% offline mobile study platform. Recently, the Lagos State Ministry of Education adopted this application for students to prepare for WAEC and BECE immediately after the lockdown was called off. The amazing performance of the Lagos State school students moved the LASG to endorse this product for continual use by the State government schools. The National President of AFED, Honourable Orji Kalu, said that “being a low-cost school association should not hinder seamless, mobile study platform that would help improve the learning, assimilation and practice experience of students digitally”. SuccessBox is a welcome development across AFED Schools Network, he added. In the words of Mr Folusho Phillips, the Chairman of Chronicles Software and renowned management consultant: “This partnership is a great feat as it will impact AFED students positively by enabling them to keep up with their academic curriculum and ultimately to excel in their examinations.” For more than a decade, the company has been at the forefront of improving the quality of education using smart technology solutions in Nigeria. The Co-founder/CEO, Mr Oluwakoyejo Oluwatosin, said the pandemic had made technology a vital part of the learning process, adding that SuccessBox was built to ensure premium access to quality learning resources. The Application is meant to improve the performance of students of schools under the association across the Nation, according to Oluwatosin. He explained that the SuccessBox was developed with the students in mind, adding that its mobile responsive feature had been configured to ensure students have a sleek and seamless user experience when engaging with the application from their mobile phones. Oluwatosin noted that the application covers all subjects, an up-to-date curriculum, test, reporting and analytic feature, CBT practice software for WAEC, JAMB, BECE with over 30,000 past questions and answers, runs on Android and Windows. With over 50 subjects available, schools can adopt this platform to run in their computer labs having laptops where students don’t have mobile devices of their own, he added.