The presidency has said the portal for the 4th National Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) Award will open from May 10. Tola Johnson, Special Assistant to the President on Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), Office of the Vice President, made this known on Friday in Abuja. Johnson, who is also the Coordinator, Project Delivery Office (PDO), briefed newsmen on the fourth National MSMEs Award slated for June 27. He said that MSMEs interested in the 2021 Awards should visit the website www.msmeclinics.gov.ng from May 10. President Muhammadu Buhari, through Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, moved to empower and reward MSMEs across the country, which gave birth to National MSME Clinics in 2017. Some offshoots of the clinics include the MSMEs One-Stop-Shop, the Shared Facility Initiative and the MSMEs Awards conceived in 2018. According to Johnson, a few things would be done differently in the forthcoming awards. “One of the very important things to quickly say is that this year, the award’s site or portal has moved to www.msmeclinics.gov.ng. “In the past, we used to have msmeclinics.gov.com but now moved to a safer site; so, we will be expecting a lot more people on this site. “This year, also, the portal will be opened from May 10 and it will open for three weeks to run all through to May 31. “The categories are the same but there is a certain category that was reviewed based on input or suggestion from one of our partners, National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA). “The category in question has been changed to Tech and Innovation Driven Enterprise; it used to be just Innovation Category.’’ He listed other categories as agriculture, beauty, wellness and cosmetics, creative arts, fashion and style, furniture and woodwork and manufacturing. Johnson said there were other special categories as the “Best MSMEs Supporting State’’. He said the date for the fourth MSME Award coincided with the UN Day for MSME; adding that there would also be a fashion exhibition. (NAN)