The National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA) and Samsung Heavy Industries Nigeria (SHIN) Limited have forged a strategy to strengthen safety on the waterways. This is in line with both organisations’ drive to rid the waterways of illegal operators while reducing accidents among jetty operators. Daily Trust recalls that NIWA’s inter-agency committee recently clamped down on six unseaworthy barges operating illegally on Lagos inland waterways, while three illegal jetties were sealed. This followed the increasing reports of abuses of processes in the operation of barges and private jetties. The inter-agency committee comprises representatives of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA); Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA); NIWA and the Lagos State Inland Waterways Authority (LASWA). Maritime experts have hailed the move which they described as a positive development that would improve the safety of the waterways and eliminate all forms of illegalities in the operations of jetties and barges. A representative of SHIN, Mr Jin Su Park, said, “This strategic alliance is a revalidation of the faith the agencies of the Nigerian government have in SHIN, which aligns with our long-term commitment to Nigeria. “Total safety, cost control and quality management will remain our priority. We will also improve on the local content standard and retain our position as local content champion.” The company recently built a Floating Production, Storage and Offloading (FPSO) vessel designed to hold 2.3 million barrels of oil for Nigeria’s Egina Deep Water Project developed by the French oil giant, Total. Weighing close to 220,000 metric tonnes and measuring 330 metres long and 60 metres wide, the Egina FPSO is the largest ever built by Total Group worldwide; producing 200,000 barrels of oil per day during SHIN’s contribution. The FPSO berthed at the SHI-MCI yard in Lagos, and that was the first of its kind to be berthed at a quayside in Nigeria. It was gathered that the move to improve the safety on the waterways was made possible with support from NPA going by the reforms initiated by its suspended Managing Director (MD), Ms Hadiza Bala-Usman, to restore foreign investors’ confidence in the country. Hon Bunmi Olumekun, Vice Chairman of Barge Operators of Nigeria (BON), in a chat with Daily Trust, said any partnership to strengthen safety on the waterways was welcome.