The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Kano University of Science and Technology, Wudil (KUST) chapter, has accused the university authorities of taking a loan worth N200 million to buy exotic vehicles instead of fixing a burnt female hostel. ASUU, while condemning the recent harassment of female student in the school, said the possibility of such an incident had been long coming due to mishandling of students’ issues by the management of the university. A statement signed by ASUU branch chairman and secretary Muhammad Sani Gaya and Murtala Muhammad respectively, on Thursday, said the N200 million bank loan may be financed by students’ registration fees while leaving a burnt female hostel unattended to. Abaya harassment Daily Trust reports that, on Wednesday, KUST apprehended 17 students for allegedly harassing a female student who wore the free-flowing Arabian dress popularly known as Abaya. A video that went viral on social media showed how the lady was circled by a group of students who were harassing and mocking her with chants of ‘Mai Abaya’. The Vice-Chancellor of the University, Professor Shehu Alhaji, said following reports of harassment by the gang of male students, the institution’s management had taken action and already identified some of them and a decisive penalty would be slammed on them. Inflation of admission slot Meanwhile, ASUU said: “The management has for long commercialized education in the university by admitting students far beyond its capacity, perhaps, in order to generate revenue, rather than prioritizing academic quality. “This situation makes bad elements come in, in droves, overshadowing the bright and well-behaved students. “Painfully, the funds generated are not put to proper use. “Recently, the university management took out a bank loan of about N200 million to purchase exotic cars that may be financed by students’ registration fees, while leaving a burnt female hostel unattended to. “The inadequacy of students’ hostels has forced a large number of students to stay off-campus, far from the care of the university authority, further worsening the act of indiscipline,” the union said. “The union will continue to put pressure on relevant authorities to right the wrong incessantly carried out,” it said. Efforts to reach the Public Relations Office of the university was not successful as calls to their phone was not connecting. However, a staff in the university, who doesn’t want his name in print, said the allegations by ASUU are baseless and that the cars have been purchased two years ago, adding that due process was followed. With regards to hostel repair, the source said: “Dangote female hostel that they are talking about will soon be repaired. “The state government has already promised to do that. So, there is no point in them making any allegations.”