There are growing concerns over frequent bird strikes on domestic flights in Nigeria just as the House of Representatives has launched a probe into the incidents. The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has also summoned airline operators to examine the current challenge and take proactive measures towards safeguarding the airspace. On Monday, an Aero Contractor Flight NIG382 heading to the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport encountered a bird strike on take-off at the Port Harcourt International Airport (PHIA), Rivers State. Also on Tuesday, another aircraft conveying the Emir of Kano, Aminu Ado Bayero, and other passengers similarly encountered the same incident on take-off forcing the pilot to make an air return. Also on March 21, 2021, a Kano- Lagos Aero Contractors flight also returned to Kano after one of the engines suffered a bird strike during take-off with many passengers stranded at the Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport. Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) in 2020 disclosed that Nigerian airlines lost about N6 billion to bird strike menace annually. Arik Air alone said it lost about $3.6 million to bird strikes between 2013 and 2019. The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), the manager of the airports had also in 2020 said it would acquire Phonic Bird Wailers, equipment that could combat this. Spokesperson of FAAN, Mrs. Henrietta Yakubu in a chat with Daily Trust said the authority is working this saying while they cut the grasses around the airports regularly, the birds keep reappearing. An aviation expert, Capt. Alex Nwuba, called on the authorities to quickly get the Phonic Bird Wailers. He said, “Birds strikes are seasonal and the best recommendation is to try to figure out; first catch the birds, understand their migration pattern and see what steps one can take to prevent the occurrence of these birds on the airfield or fire a gunshot before departure.” Reps to probe Max Air, Aero incidents The House of Representatives on Wednesday mandated its committee on Aviation to investigate the bird strike incidences involving Max Air and Aero Contractors aircrafts. This was after the adoption of a motion on matters of urgent public importance moved by Rep. Bala Sani Umar. The lawmaker said, there were allegations of negligence on the part of the airliners in applying safety precautions leading to the two incidents. The House therefore called on its committee on Aviation to investigate claims of engine failure and or bird strikes by Max Air and Aero Contractors that depart Kano and Port Harcourt Airports to Abuja.