The National Institute for Legislative and Democratic Studies (NILDS) has named a past chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Professor Attahiru Jega, as chairman of its planning committee of NILDS parliamentarians lectures. The Director General of , Professor Abubakar Sulaiman, while inaugurating the seven-man committee in Abuja, said the initiative was borne out of the need to provide a forum, through which past and serving parliamentarians can address topical issues of national interest on a regular basis and chart a course for development in the country. Prof. Sulaiman stated that the committee is charged with developing comprehensive modalities for implementing, coordination and implementation of the lecture in developing a data bank of topics for discussion as well as lists of resource persons from distinguished local and foreign parliamentarians to present papers at the lecture. “The committee will write a comprehensive report to the DG which will be d to the leadership of the National Assembly and put forward any other suggestions that will aid in the smooth implementation of the lectures. Its objective is in line with the Institute’s mandate of consolidating democratic governance through deliberations and policy formulation by engaging relevant stakeholders,” he said. In his remarks, the former INEC boss said parliamentarians need to reach out to the people to intimate them with efforts targeted at development. According to him, “the lecture series, when it finally takes off will go a long way in adding to the work of the parliamentarians, build democracy and create a better framework for good governance.” The Committee membership is composed of Director, Special Duties, Dr. Adeyemi Fajingbesi, Director, Democratic Studies, Dr. Adewale Aderemi, Acting Director, Legislative Support Services, Prof. Edoba Omoregie, Deputy Director, Training and International Cooperation, Barr. Amina Bibi Farouk, SA to DG on Academic, Dr. Nasir Naeem Abdulsalam and Private Principal Secretary to the DG, Ms. Joy Makeri. The first progress report of the Committee is expected within fifteen days of its inauguration.