I write to draw the attention of the Bauchi State Governor His Excellency, Sen. Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed on the above new development of banning commercial motorcycles in some local government areas of the state. Bauchi State is battling to reduce unemployment, which is alarmingly high as reported by the NBS, with the number as high as 43 percent. However, the Okada riders have contributed largely in aiding Governor Bala Mohammed’s administration and they are enduring such unfair treatment. The current frightening moment of widespread insecurity has drastically turned Nigeria into a centre of bloodshed moving the country on the brink of collapse as a result of youth unemployment. The governor has to first look into the negative implications of banning Achaba in his state. This is not the first time his attempt of doing so. Since the initial scene of this ill-advised decision, there have been many sad incidents ranging from stealing, poverty, starvation, wanton misery and banditry have rampantly been escalating day-in-day-out. This is because the majority of those depressed commercial riders have no means to ameliorate their living standards other than to practice their occupational activities to cater to their basic needs. Regarding the Keke NAPEPs which were given to some select individuals on loan, 965 were distributed to those who are said to be commercial Okada riders, while the reality is that almost the majority of those who received are the hidden political troops to their masters’ who hold on power. Frankly speaking, we have at least 20,000 Okada operators across the state. Hence, what provision did the governor make for the remaining 19,065 commercial Okada riders who had not gotten the Keke NAPEPs? In a nutshell, I would like to advise Governor Bala Mohammed to ponder over this ill-advised and unethical decision instead of adding fuel to the flame of youth unemployment, the governor should create massive job opportunities for our unemployed youths. For instance, the governor should spare no efforts to positively follow the footsteps of former governor, Mallam Isah Yuguda who created numerous entrepreneur skills, economic empowerment, and stipends for our jobless youths to tackle joblessness in the state. A stitch in time saves nine. Mallam Musbahu Magayaki Writes from Sabon Fegi, Azare