Governor David Umahi of of Ebonyi State has asked residents to observed the sit-at-home order if they desire to do so. Umahi, who gave a waiver to traders to partially observe the sit-at-home order issued by the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), encouraged them to pray for heroes and loved ones who were murdered during the civil war in the country. He said his government will no longer move against those who observe order. In a statewide broadcast on Saturday, Umahi had said shops belonging to traders who observe the sit-at-home order will be seized. But in a statement on Sunday, the governor made a U-Turn, telling residents that they are free to take any decision that pleases them regarding the order. The statement reads in part: “The Government of Ebonyi State has received several requests from some families and residents of the State, requesting that they would like to remain indoors on Monday, May 31, 2021, to organize private family prayers in honor of their loved ones who were murdered during the unfortunate civil war. “Some of the people with this special request own shops in some of our markets across the state. “While as a government, we remain resolute in the protection of lives and property of Ebonyians and all residents of Ebonyi State, we are aware that it is the right of anyone to remain at home or go about his/her normal businesses in this regard. “Following the foregoing, the Governor, Engr. David Umahi, who is highly in touch with the people has directed that those who may wish to remain at home with their shop(s) locked should neither be penalized, nor their shop(s) seized as it is their constitutional right while the rights of those who may wish to go about their normal businesses should not be infringed upon as it is equally their constitutional right. “Also, security agencies are directed to do everything possible to maintain law and order in the entire Ebonyi State while maintaining the ban of any procession and gathering of any kind throughout the state.”