The Adamawa state chapter of the All Progressives Congress has lamented the break of a strike by lawmakers for an emergency sitting to approve a N100 billion loan to be taken by the state government. APC says lawmakers resumed plenary specifically to push through the loan request even when staff of the assembly were on nationwide strike. It called the loan another another means to siphon funds for the governor’s 2023 election. The party advised Govermor Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri to rather pay attention to tackling accumulated pension and promotion arrears owed the state civil servants, even as it decried lack of basic amenities in the state. The party’s caretaker publicity secretary, Mohammed Abdullahi, warned lawmakers to live up to their constituents’ expectations and avoid being misguided by the governor. “In 2019 and 2020 alone, the governor through the Assembly collected about N30 billion which cannot be properly accounted for. “The sum of N9 billion was collected as loan to execute 2,000-unit housing project at Malkohi, but the houses are nowhere to be found. “The N15 billion collected for the renovation of secondary schools cannot be accounted for because no single secondary school was renovated. “The COVID-19 N2billion loan collected was also a mystery as nothing to show for the collection of this huge amount of money. Chides Yola flyover, says it has no value for people APC alleged that the construction of two overhead bridges in the state proved the level of insincerity of the administration, adding that it adds no additional value to the people of the state. “The party is disturbed by the urgent request for the N100 billion Agric business bond, being compounded by the fact that the State House of Assembly resumed plenary specifically for that purpose, even when the staff of the House are on a nationwide strike. Governor reacts Responding to the allegation, Governor Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri said the bond was for agro business which would open up the agricultural economy providing jobs for 750,000 youths in the state. He explained that his administration has partnered with Areas Research and Development in order to explore huge potentials in making funds available for the state and not just for capital projects. “The Adamawa agro business bond I think is something that should be celebrated by all especially in Nigeria. “That for the first time, the Security and Exchange Commission (SEC) gave approval for a state to borrow from the capital market for agricultural business” he stated.