Katsina United brightened their chances of survival as they walloped visiting Wikki Tourists 5-1 in Sunday’s 2021 NPFL Week 20 match just as Akwa United defeated Sunshine Stars 2-1 to dislodge Kwara United from the top of the table after the ‘Afonja Warriors’ lost 1-2 at Nasarawa United. Katsina United playing under a new technical adviser, Azeez Mohammed, swept aside Wikki Tourists in a one-sided contest as bullish Joseph Atule opened the scoring in the 17th minute before recording three assists in the comprehensive victory. Rasheed Ahmed scored a brace in the 35th and 74th minute while new signing Samuel Nnoshiri and Samuel Kalu scored a goal each to complete the rout. Assisted by Joel Djondang, Stephen Gopey scored Wikki’s lone goal in the 48th minute with a left-footed shot. Tourists ended the match with only 10 men following the straight red card to junior international, Nazifi Yahaya for what appeared like a verbal assault on the referee. At Lafia township stadium, Kwara United were reduced to 10-men as early as the 18th minute after Jide Williams was given the marching orders following a second booking and Nasarawa United made judicious use of their numerical advantage. Anas Yusuf opened the scoring with an acrobatic finish in the 48th minute, Silas Nwankwo then made it two in the 69th minute before substitute Wasiu Alalade reduced the deficit in the 90th minute. Plateau United also recorded a 2-1 win over Abia Warriors courtesy of Ibrahim Mustapha’s brace in the 6th and 50th minute which made Fatai Abdullahi’s goal in the 55th minute a mere consolation. In Enugu, Christian Nnaji scored in the 57th minute from the spot to give Rangers a 1-0 victory over Enyimba, Akwa United dimmed Sunshine Stars 2-1 in Uyo to climb to the top of the table, Rivers United piped Dakkada 2-0 just as Warri Wolves forced 10-man Kano Pillars to 1-1 draw in Ozoro. Despite the draw, Pillars are now second on the table, same 37 points with Akwa United who have a superior goal difference of plus 13. And it was more misery for already relegated Adamawa United as they lost 0-1 to Heartland at the Pantami stadium Gombe.