The Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) has asked Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna and the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) to stop flexing muscles. Labour unions had declared a warning strike to compel the governor to reverse the recent mass sack of civil servants in the state. The strike crippled economic activities in the state as banks, hospitals, airport, train station, among others were shut down. In a statement on Tuesday, Kebbi State governor and Chairman of the PGF, Senator Atiku Bagudu, also appealed to the NLC to demonstrate more commitment towards engaging governments at all levels in addressing challenges. The governors said the atmosphere in the country was already tensed, adding that rather than flex muscles, the Kaduna state government and the NLC ought to return to the negotiation table. “Noting all the challenges facing all our states, especially given dwindling revenue, we appeal to all patriotic Nigerians, including the NLC, to demonstrate more commitment towards engaging governments at all levels to address problems. This is not the time for muscle flexing. “Nigerians are already overstretched with many challenges. At this critical point of our democratic journey, there cannot be limits to engagement between all governments and citizens. “Every step must be therefore taken to resolve the current face-off between Kaduna state government and NLC. We appeal to both the State Government and NLC to return to the negotiating table. “We appeal to NLC leadership to recognise that the burden of leadership is more about responding to challenges based on the honest disposition of correcting past mistakes. “As progressive governors, we share the vision of Kaduna State government of reforming all our local government councils to make them more efficient and consequently the pivot of critical development initiatives. “At the same time, we want to appeal to the state government under the leadership of our colleague, Malam Nasir El-Rufai to take all necessary steps to ensure the resolution of all disagreements in the larger interest of citizens in Kaduna state,” he said.