Registration for the 2021 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination has recorded at least 600,000 failed attempts, according to the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB). More than 1.1 million candidates have registered so far, and the board expects 1.9 million candidates to register, said JAMB registrar Ishaq Oloyede. Speaking during a virtual meeting with 2021 UTME committee members on Friday, Oloyede said the possibility of shifting the exam date scheduled to hold between June 5 and 19 was very high. The JAMB boss said though 50 per cent of candidates have already registered without problem, he said the board will analyse what is happening and know where the problem is coming from. He added that after meeting with stakeholders, they will decide on whether to shift the exam forward or not. “Shifting the exam date is not the solution, at the meeting we will discuss how some of the problems encountered by candidates would be resolved. It is important that we carry everyone along”, he added. While apologising for the new initiatives introduced in the 2021 UTME, Prof Oloyede explained that it was not to punish candidates but to rather expose candidates in the habit of indulging in various forms of malpractices. He explained that candidates are expected to provide two pictures in the exam script, pictures of who register for the exam and of persons who register for NIN. While calling on candidates to take note of the process, he said that the essence was to dictate any disparity in the process. “We apologise for putting you through some hardship in the registration. The government directed that anyone participating in JAMB must have their NIN. This is beyond our control. Those who are yet to register should do so,” he added. He said the MOCK exam, which is to come up on Thursday, is an exam meant to test out capability, as the main exam is coming up on June 5 and 19. He further disclosed that JAMB has secured about 802 exam centres across the country and 104 centres in towns adding that Lagos state alone has four centres. 