A boy kidnapped from his parent’s home in a Kaduna suburb has been found dead, seven days after he was taken and N5 million ransom paid for his release. Muhammad Kabir, taken from Badarawa suburb of Kaduna North local government area, is believed to have been killed by his kidnappers. His body was found in drainage in Kano after a weeklong search, and returned to Kaduna to be buried on Saturday. Sources in the area believe a neighbour connived with another resident ex-military personnel to kidnap the boy. Police have arrested three people, including the said neighbour, in connection with the kidnap and murder of Kabir. Sources in the community also told Daily Trust that immediately the boy was declared missing,  a search for him was done for days before a call came in from the kidnappers demanding N50m, and then later reduced the amount to N35m before finally agreeing to N5m. Abdulrahman Kabir Magayaki, a brother to the victim, told Daily Trust that the late Kabir was taken away from their house to Zaria from there to Kano State where his body was retrieved after the ransom was paid. “One of the suspects that took the boy away was our neighbour while the ex-military personnel was also a resident in the community. They took him to Zaria from there to Kano where his body was retrieved inside drainage after they collected 5 million naira ransom,” he said. He said the victim’s body was brought back to Kaduna and buried according to Islamic rites on Saturday. Another resident, on condition of anonymity, said the victim must have been killed after he recognised the faces of his abductors since they are all living in the area. Details of how the suspects were apprehended remain sketchy but they were arrested and led the police to where the body was dumped. Kaduna State Police Command Spokesman ASP Mohammed Jalige who confirmed the incident said three suspects have been arrested in connection to the crime, including the neighbour. He said they all confessed to the crime but said he cannot comment on the military background of one of the suspects until after investigation is concluded.