Amidst agitation for the Oduduwa Republic in the South-West, leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the geo-political zone Sunday met in Lagos where they expressed “strong opposition” to the agitation. The meeting held in Lagos House, Marina, was at the instance of the former interim National Chairman of the APC, Chief Bisi Akande. At the meeting was a national leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, governors of Lagos, Babajide Sanwo-Olu,  Dapo Abiodun (Ogun), Adegboyega Oyetola (Osun) and Chief Bisi Akande. Others were General Alani Akinrinade (rtd), former governor of Ogun State, Aremo Segun Osoba, Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Niyi Adebayo and Chief Pius Akinyelure among others. Daily Trust learnt that the meeting was in response to the raging agitation for Yoruba nation by a section of the region with several rallies held in South-West states to agitate for Oduduwa Republic. In a communiqué read by Chief Akande, the South West leaders asked security agencies and the federal government to reduce tension in the country following the worsening security challenges bedeviling the nation. The communique reads in part; “We note with significant concern the security situation in the country. Terrorism and violent criminality threaten many areas, adversely affecting the lives and livelihoods of too many innocent and peace-loving Nigerians. “We urge the federal government to continue to make the necessary expenditures and allocate sufficient resources to enable the military and security agencies to tackle the difficult security challenges confronting us. “For Nigeria to overcome these challenges, we must do so with unity of purpose and action. The desire for peace and the chance for a prosperous and just society is universal and transcends all regional, religious or ethnic divisions. Sadly, many public figures have made statements that spark division and undermine the needed unity of purpose. “We restate our abhorrence of violence as a means to achieve either political or economic power and influence. We strongly condemn violence of any form in any part of the country, regardless of ethnic or regional identity of the perpetrators of the violence or of the victims. Government must do all it can to protect potential victims and to assist those who have previously been victimized by terrorism or widespread banditry. “We endorse the position of the Southern Governors taken at their May 11, 2021 summit in Asaba, Delta State, regarding ranching. We do so because such a decision will lessen tensions between farmers and herders while also helping the long-term economic viability of both the farming and herding communities.” 