An interdenominational Christian group, Fellowship of Christian Ministers In Nigeria (FCMN), has made a plea to President Muhammadu Buhari to fix the ailing economy and arrest the scourge of terrorism bedeviling the nation. Rising from its annual fasting and praying service at The New Apostolic Church, Ebutte -Metta, Lagos, the President, Rt. Revd. Dr. Olayemi Ogunniran, said the time has come to speak out and call a Spade a Spade. He urged Buhari to be fair in all he does and leave the rest for God, as who does not fail. Themed: Trust in God’s Infinite Mercy, the Conference took place at the 8, Jones Street, Apapa road, Oyingbo, Lagos. “Peace cannot and should not be taken for granted. It is a precious value that requires cultivation and tending in every generation. Our citizenry have made it clear long since that the hard-won peace is their abiding wish. We need a renewal of political will so that new ways can be found to reconcile and unite individuals and communities,” the forum said in a statement. While speaking to newsmen, the Secretary General, Rev J. Oluwasanmi, in the company of all EXCO members, said, “As citizens, and especially as Christians who hear of the Word of God addressed to us from the Holy Scriptures, we are called to listen to one another, and especially to victims of conflict in such a way that we achieve mutual understanding and esteem, and even to seeing in an enemy the face of a brother or sister”. They also urged the government of President Buhari to note that “Peace cannot and should not be taken for granted. It is a precious value that requires cultivation and tending in every generation. This fact requires inculcation in the hearts and minds of our youth, lest some be misled by misguided glorification of violence as a political option. Our society as a whole can still benefit from taking to heart the statement that the opposite of peace, war, is fuelled by a perversion of relationships, by hegemonic ambitions, by abuses of power, by fear of others and by seeing diversity as an obstacle”.