Communication etiquettes both personal and professional are extremely significant because they tell a lot about you. In the corporate world, individuals are recognized by the way they communicate with each other. People always read an impression of you by taking note of your body language, digital and verbal communication. This makes it important to make sure that all forms of communication at the workplace are kept professional, yet effective. The following rules will help you understand how to go about different means of communication and deliver your message effectively: Always Listen: Most times when people are talking, we are solely focused on what we want to respond with instead of paying attention to the information being given. To break off such habits, reframe from assuming what you heard or don’t understand, ask for clarifications if you have a concern or question. Use your body to advantage by smiling and nodding when appropriate and face the person’s shoulder to shoulder when speaking. Be Concise: it’s important to always be respectful of people’s time by keeping their message brief and to the point. Certain people always tend to babble and deviate from conversations therefore devoting time to personal agendas and issues that are of no importance. Focus on the other person: Even those who view themselves to be master multitaskers can’t deny that strong one-on- one conversation requires the eyes to meet as a show of respect. Even though you are perfectly capable of carrying on a conversation and giving precise feedback, it’s important that you look your superior squarely in their eyes and give them your undivided attention. Choose the right delivery: Decide the most suitable method for the message and the recipient. Often times a face-to-face conversation is needed, other times a simple text message can suffice. Certain information is delivered via email which can be read at the recipient’s convenience and also gives room for more thought and careful choosing of words. Ask Questions: Communication is a two-way street. Using open-ended questions is a means of showing interest, inviting others to contribute. It also helps improve understanding of the information being passed. Gossiping isn’t good team building: You and your teammates can discuss the weather, politics, upcoming events, etc., but whatever you do, do not fall into the habit of gossiping about co-workers with other co-workers. Don’t have personal conversations at your desk: If it’s important you make that phone call, make sure you don’t have your conversations at your desk where your colleagues can hear you. Some offices have conference rooms which will be more advisable to use. If not, stepping outside will not be a bad idea. Don’t talk back to your boss: This advice goes without saying, but nevertheless, even if there isn’t much difference in age between you and your superior, you should never speak back to them. Always give them their respect and do your part not to be sarcastic. 