Friday, May 28, 2021 will remain historic to the family of late Alhaji Babba Danagundi, the former Sarkin Dawaki Maituta, following the turbaning of Alhaji Aminu Babba Danagundi as Sarkin Dawaki Babba of Kano emirate. By this appointment, Aminu Babba Danagundi, an influential member of the famous Danagundi family has automatically become a senior council member and kingmaker in the emirate. The Sarki Dawaki Babba is a new title added to Kano emirates, thereby making the number of kingmakers five as against the usual four. The other four kingmakers are Madaki, Sarkin Bai, Makama and Sarkin Dawaki Maituta. The title, the first of its kind in northern Nigeria, Daily Trust gathered was chosen by Aminu Babba Danagundi and endorsed by the Emir of Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero and Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, because of their good relationship with him. Daily Trust recalls that the late Alhaji Babba Danagundi was capped Sarkin Dawaki Maituta by the late Emir of Kano, Alhaji Ado Bayero, and after his death, the title was conferred on his son, Alhaji Aminu Babba, by the same emir. Aminu Babba Danagundi served as Sarkin Dawaki Maituta and District Head of Gwarzo and later Gabasawa before he was deposed by the same Emir Ado Bayero over allegations of political interference and insubordination. Hence, the present appointment of Alhaji Aminu as Sarkin Dawaki Babba will surely elevate the hitherto dying reputation of the famous Danagundi family; having lost the title of Sarkin Dawaki Maituta to another family several years ago. Family members, friends and well-wishers have converged at the emir’s palace today to witness the turbaning of Alhaji Aminu as the Sarkin Dawaki Babba. The new Sarkin Dawaki Babba is the first person to be conferred with the title since the amendment of the Kano Emirate Council Law in 2020 by the House of Assembly which paved way for the introduction of the new title. Alhaji Aminu was born on December 31, 1956, and he attended Gidan Makama Primary School, Kano; St Louis Primary School, Kano; then Government College, Kano (now Rumfa College), and then proceeded to the famous Kaduna Polytechnic (Kadpoly). The new Sarkin Dawaki Babba served his fatherland in many capacities before he was conferred with the title of Sarkin Dawaki Maituta and District Head of Gwarzo on July 6, 1990. He served as the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Dala Orthopaedic Hospital, Kano; Chairman, Board Directors of Rural Electrification Board (REB); a board member of the Bank of Industry and a board member of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA). The new Sarkin Dawaki Babba also worked in the private sector as General Manager (GM) of Danagundi General Merchants and GM of Nijam International Limited. An elder sister of the new Sarkin Dawaki Babba, Hajiya Maryam Ado Gwaram, described his appointment as a welcome development, noting that the family of the late Babba Danagundi had been waiting for “this historic date to come.” She said: “The appointment is long overdue. Our late father served the traditional institution as Sarkin Dawaki Maituta for several years before my brother Alhaji Aminu succeeded him after his death. I am happy that the present emir of Kano, Aminu Ado Bayero, understands the importance of our great family and has appointed one of us as kingmaker and a senior council member. “Alhaji Aminu is a great man like our late father. He has a large heart and shoulders responsibilities of others irrespective of where they come from. He is always willing to help others. So, appointing him a senior council could be best described as a well-deserved appointment. “For the family of late Babba, today history has repeated itself. I witnessed the turbaning of my father as Sarkin Dawaki Maituta by the late Emir Bayero, I also witnessed the turbaning of Alhaji Aminu as Sarkin Dawaki Maituta, and now I am witnessing the conferment of a brand new title on my brother. Alhamdulillah!” She further said, “I was young when our father bagged the title, but I vividly recall the time and how he got it. It all started when he was sent to prison over political differences between him and the then authorities. He was in prison when the late Ado Bayero (before he became emir) visited him and consoled him over his detention. He told my father not to worry and promised that whenever he became emir he would return the title of Sarkin Dawaki Maituta to our family. “As Allah willed it, Ado Bayero was appointed Emir of Kano. My father was so excited when he heard the news. In fact, I had never seen my father in such a happy mood. When I asked him why he was so happy, he said Ado Bayero would be turbaned emir. “So, when the late Ado Bayero settled on the throne, he fulfilled his promise by appointing our father as Sarkin Dawaki Maituta, and our father, a kind and generous person, did his best in handling the affairs of his subjects. “Therefore, turbaning Alhaji Aminu as Sarkin Dawaki Babba is a well-deserved appointment and a welcome development to the entire members of the Babba Danagundi family. We are thankful to Allah Almighty for the gesture.” A younger brother of the new Sarkin Dawaki Babba and Managing Director (MD) of the Kano Road Traffic Agency (KAROTA), Alhaji Baffa Babba Danagundi, assured that his brother was not new to the system, and that he would perform beyond expectation. Alhaji Baffa said, “The appointment is a welcome development to our great family because it is something that will lift up the status of the family. Remember, our father was Sarkin Dawaki Maituta, and Alhaji Aminu also served as Sarkin Dawaki Maituta before he was removed due to some issues. So, for a member of the family to bag another traditional title, I believe it is something worth celebrating. “I wish to express gratitude to Almighty Allah, the Emir of Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero, and Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, for the gesture done to our family. “I am confident that the new Sarkin Dawaki Babba will serve his subjects beyond expectations. Alhaji Aminu is a well-connected person, and I am sure he will use his influence to bring development to Kano Emirate in particular, and Kano State in general.” Alhaji Baffa further said, “He is a kind person and is always concerned about the well-being of his people. I pray Almighty Allah to guide him in discharging his responsibilities as a kingmaker.” He added that, “I want to use this medium to assure the Kano Emirate, the government and the good people of Kano Sate that the new Sarkin Dawaki Babba will never disappoint them. We will support him at all times to do the right thing.” From Zaharaddeen Yakubu Shu’aibu, Kano