President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Prof George Obiozor, has said that only restructuring can prevent Nigeria from disintegration. He described the country’s present challenges as a political tragedy waiting to manifest at any time, adding however that it was not too late to salvage it. Obiozor who spoke on Thursday at the second day of the public hearing on the review of the constitution for South East Zone, in Owerri noted that the 1999 constitution has caged many Nigerians preventing them from developing their potentials. He said, “Countries are born with political tragedies waiting to happen. And our history shows that Nigeria is one of them. “All signs of national tragedies foretold are present today in full force in Nigeria. “In fact, it would require a restructured Nigeria to contain the present forces and tendencies towards a synchronized national crisis and even a possibility of national disintegration.” He added, “As national leaders, we must learn the lessons of history that in societies where truth comes last, tragedy comes first. And the perennial problem of continuous dilemma in Nigeria politics always revolve around the issues of justice, equity and fairness. “As I have said several times throughout history, those denied justice have had no interest in peace. “Accordingly, for many Nigerians and groups, the 1999 constitution has left them with feeling like a caged lion over their relative capacities to develop their individual potentials. “Therefore, to many of these citizens across the country, states, and zones, restructuring Nigeria will be equivalent to releasing the lion from the cage and it can defend itself,” Obiozor stated. Non-partisan Chairman of the constitution review committee in the south east, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, urged the Ohanaeze to remain non partisan in politics just as he also enjoined them to continue playing their fatherly roles. He disclosed that the committee had received 48 submissions so far. Kalu said, “This is the time Ohanaeze should moved forward as an advisory body, not as politicians, and not be partisan. “The roles of Ohanaeze is independent and they should continue playing fatherly roles.” Kalu advised. A member Representing Okigwe North at the Federal House of Representatives, Marian Onuoha, made case for the physically challenged ones in the country. She said that as citizens in the country, they need to enjoy equal rights with others.