A police officer was killed after gunmen attacked two police stations in Etim Ekpo Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State. Daily Trust gathered that the incident happened in the early hours of Wednesday. According to SP Odiko Macdon, Police Public Relations Officer in the state, the gunmen first struck at Etim Ekpo Area Command, where Edogi Bassey, an officer, was killed. They later proceeded to Ika Divisional Police Station. “At about 6:30am today, Armed Men, in their numbers, armed with AK 47 Rifles and other dangerous weapons, in two vehicles attacked the rented building housing the Etim Ekpo Area Command and Division.” “The undaunted and vigilant Police Officers on duty, gallantly fought back, repelled them and averted the intended carnage. Unfortunately, a dedicated Officer, one PC Edogi Bassey paid the supreme price while a small portion of the building was torched. “The gunmen who proceeded to Ika Division to perpetrate their nefarious activities were successfully again repelled leaving the Station intact without loss of lives or arms.” The PPRO said the new trend of attacks on Police stations was worrisome and is being addressed by the police authorities. He said the Commissioner of Police, Amiengheme Andrew, has embarked on a visit of police divisions across the state to ensure the officers and men were alert and safe. He called on the citizens to volunteer timely information that will enable the Police tackle the current security challenges. Governor Udom Emmanuel had on Monday donated N60 million to the families of deceased policemen killed during attacks on Police stations. “I condole with the command over the loss of men and assets to the recent security skirmishes witnessed in the state. I pray God’s consolation for the families of the policemen who lost their breadwinners. “In addition to the financial support I have given the deceased families, we will do all within our power to support our men in uniform to end the new wave of criminality in the state,” he had stated. Meanwhile, it was gathered that hoodlums also attacked and destroyed Senator Godswill Akpabio’s Unity Hall in Essien Udim local government area early on Wednesday. The town hall was built by the former house member who represented Essien Udim State Constituency in the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, Mr Nse Ntuen.