Former champions, Kano Pillars have assumed leadership of the 2021 NPFL table even as they were forced to 1-1 draw by Katsina United in the week 22 match played Sunday at the Muhammadu Dikko stadium in Katsina. Five minutes after Suraj Ayeleso saved Ahmed Rasheed’s penalty kick, Pillars inspirational captain, Rabiu Ali popped up at the other end to give the ‘Masu gida’ boys the lead from a direct free kick in the 26th minute. However, Pillars’ lead was short-lived as Ahmed Rasheed made amends for his earlier miss from the spot by heading home Usman Bara’u’s cross to level scores in the 34th minute. The draw put Pillars on top of the log with 41 points but their reign may not last more than 24 hours, if Akwa United who are on 40 points would beat Rangers today in Uyo. In Jos, it was a good day in the office for Plateau United who rubbed more salt into Wikki Tourists injuries with a 4-1 victory. Ibrahim Mustapha scored in the 3rd minute from a tight spot to start the rout before Jibrin Abubakar equalised for the hapless Tourists in the 9th minute. Thereafter, it was one way traffic as Mohammed Zulkifilu scored a brace (17, 55) before Oche Ohowechi put the icing on the cake for Plateau United in the 90th minute. Nasarawa United also overwhelmed visiting Heartland 3-1 after Aliyu Abdullahi scored a brace (27, 50) and Martins Owolijah tripled the lead in the 61st minute before Chijoke Akuneto reduced the deficit with a screamer in the 85th minute. In Gombe, host Adamawa United chased Wolves to a 3-3 draw, FC IfeanyiUbah topped Sunshine Stars 1-0 in Nnewi in the battle of relegation teams, MFM piped Lobi Stars 1-0 in Lagos and Abia Warriors forced Rivers United to 0-0 draw in Port-Harcourt. At the Ahmadu Bello stadium Kaduna, Jigawa Stars left it late to draw 1-1 with visiting Dakkada FC. While the match between Enyimba and Kwara United didn’t hold due to the former’s continental engagement, Akwa United will seek to reclaim the top spot from Pillars when they host Rangers this afternoon.