The Federal Government of Nigeria with support from the U S Centre for Disease Control and Prevention has launched the second phase of a survey aimed at using antibody tests to estimate the percentage of people in a population who have antibodies against SARS-Cov-2, popularly called COVID-19 The project titled “COVID-19 Seroprevalence Survey” to be carried out in 38 enumeration areas across the FCT and Kano will also reveal the number of people who may have been previously infected with SARS-Cov-2. The Survey which is funded by the United States Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, is being executed by the University of Maryland Baltimore, Nigerian Office Sunday James, Communications and Public Relations Specialist, University of Maryland Baltimore, Nigerian Office Abuja in a statement issued on Monday said the survey is set to officially commence in the first week of June. He said the survey will enable targeted participants to know their malaria and COVID-19 status as well as receive important information about how to prevent COVID-19 in their household with an added opportunity to interact with trained health professional for any COVID-19 related issues. “More so, those who are diagnosed with malaria will be treated instantly while positive COVID-19 cases will be referred and followed up for adequate free management and care. “The Government of Nigeria through the Nigerian Centre for Disease control is providing technical assistance and some structural synergy for smooth implementation of all planned activities for the survey. The statement quoted the  Director Special Duties, Health and Human Services, FCTA, Dr. Matthew Ashikeni, who also doubles as the Chairman, Technical Committee for the COVID-19 Sero-survey, as saying that those who are to participate have been properly trained and equipped with skills for the data collection. “First of all, the participants are categorized into two groups. We have the laboratorians, who are people who are already trained in the field of medical laboratory with experience in the necessary requirements, skills to conduct laboratory tests because they have to take specimen from the nose, from the throat as well as blood samples for COVID-19 tests as well as for malaria test. “We are not unaware that some persons might be apprehensive so we are engaging with the public to inform them about this exercise, we have been engaging with traditional and religious leaders and through the various media channels. “FCT and Kano residents are aware that the survey is to be conducted and are willing to cooperate with the enumerators once it commences. The staff have been trained to be courteous and respectful and to be able to explain the purpose of the survey in a manner that it will be easily acceptable”, Dr Matthew was quoted as saying in the statement. In a separate interview, the Programme Director for the COVID-19 Sero-survey, University of Maryland Baltimore, Nigerian office, Dr. Emem Iwara, says the survey is going to give Nigerians a hint on the number of persons that may have had COVID without knowing. She added that the survey has been successfully conducted previously  in four other states namely, Nasarawa, Gombe, Enugu and Lagos.