President Muhammadu Buhari has again announced a ban on traditional Sallah homage to the President by religious, community and political leaders – and he will be marking eid at the Aso Rock Villa. President Buhari, in a statement issued on Sunday by his spokesman, Garba Shehu, encouraged such leaders to be content with modest celebrations at home in view of the COVID-19 pandemic as was the case last year. The statement titled ‘President Buhari to Mark Eid in the Villa, Plans Modest Celebration at Home’, read: “As Muslims in Nigeria join others globally in preparations towards Eid Al-Fitr, a day that is celebrated to mark the end of Ramadan, the month of fasting, President Buhari directs that all celebrations be limited due to the global Coronavirus crisis. “To this effect, the President, First Family, his personal aides, members of cabinet and Service Chiefs who choose to remain in Abuja will congregate in full compliance with COVID-19 protocols at the forecourt of the Presidential Villa to observe the Eid prayers. Time fixed for the prayer is 9:00am. “President Buhari specially thanks the Ulama (Islamic Clerics) and all other religious (Muslim, Christian) leaders who continue to pray for the wellbeing of the nation and its people.” The President took the opportunity to condole with all who lost family members due to what he described as the ‘madness’ going on in parts of the country. Eastern Security Network (ESN), the militant wing of the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB), which has been waging a relentless war against security men is said to be behind the spate of attacks on military and police formations, including public institutions in the South East geo-political zone. The latest in their atrocious acts was a failed attack on the Orlu Divisional Police Headquarters, in which 11 of them met their waterloo. President Buhari called on all local leaders to talk to their youths and warn them against being used to incite and foment violence. “If we attack institutions guarding us,” the President wondered, “who will protect us in future emergencies?”