Indigenes of Offa LGA of Kwara State on Thursday threw their weight behind the second term bid of Governor Abdulrahman AbdulRazaq. This is coming a week after the Olofa of Offa, Oba Mufutau Gbadamosi Esuwoye II, publicly endorsed the governor and months after a similar one by some stakeholders in Kaiama, Kwara North. According to the indigenes who expressed full support for the monarch’s action, the new endorsement was hinged on what they described as the superlative performance of AbdulRazaq in the last two years. Describing Abdulrazaq as a goal getter, the people said the difference in the development in the state is very clear, compared with what obtained in the past. Speaking at a town hall meeting, the APC chairman in Offa, Abdullateef Afolayan, said, “come 2023, there’s no vacancy in Kwara government house as we’re determined as a people to return Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq for a second term in office”. The meeting had critical stakeholders in the affairs of Offa, including representatives of Olofa, the Chief Imam of Offa, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and Muslim leaders, youths as well as business community in attendance. Afolayan’s declaration was greeted with ecstasy by the Deputy Governor, Kayode Alabi, Special Advisers on Political, Political Communication and Strategy, Gidado Alakawa, Bashir Adigun and Sa’adu Salau, respectively, who graced the event. The representative of Olofa, the Asalofa of Offa, Alhaji Isiaka Shittu, said ongoing development efforts in the state by the governor, especially in Offa town should be commended, adding that renovation of the Offa General Hospital, rehabilitation of Offa roads and Offa water works are some of the areas where the governor has impacted on the town. The women, represented by the market women leader, Alhaja Idiat Yesufu, said the people know the level of development the present administration has achieved since assuming office. She commended the governor for financial empowerment and support to traders in the state. She said Offa women supported the endorsement of the governor by the Olofa, “because we know how the present administration met Kwara and how it is today.”