The emergence of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker/Extraordunary Convention Planning Committee on June 25, 2020 gave a huge relief to party members after a period of intense crisis in the party. This was sequel to the dissolution of the Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC) over an alleged abuse of office. Pundits say the party under Oshiomhole was gradually going into extinction following the crisis that engulfed the system. The Buni-led caretaker committee was mandated by the National Executive Committee (NEC), which is the second highest decision-making organ of the party, to reconcile all aggrieved members, embark on membership drive and organise a national convention within six months. But the committee’s timeline was later extended by the NEC on December 8, 2020 by another six months to enable it accomplish its mandate. The committee, on assumption of office, commenced the process of reconciliation nationwide and recorded significant milestones in the process. On August 23, 2020, the Buni-led committee summoned the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi and the Minister of State for Petroleum, Timipre Sylva, to the party’s national secretariat in Abuja, where they were reconciled and asked to work together for the party. Similarly, the committee received some Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) bigwigs who jumped ship into the APC following moves by the ruling party to whittle down the structures of opposition parties ahead of the 2023 general elections. The latest defection was recorded on Thursday when Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State dumped the PDP for the ruling party. Ayade’s defection came six months after his counterpart in Ebonyi, Dave Umahi, joined the APC. Similarly, the APC has, within the period, harvested other PDP bigwigs, including a former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara; former national chairman of the PDP, Chief Barnabas Gemade; a PDP senator representing Adamawa North, Elisha Abbo. Chief Jimoh Ibrahim; a former Head of Service of the Federation, Mr Danladi Kifasi; Senator Isa Hamma Misau; Alhaji Salisu Takai; senators, members of the House of Representatives; members of state Houses of Assembly and many others also pitched tent with the ruling party. Most of the defectors attributed their decision to pitch tent with the APC to an alleged poor handling of issues and injustice in the PDP, a claim that was refuted by the top echelon of the opposition party. Unveiling his scorecard recently, Buni said the committee had resolved some “life-threatening challenges” in 11 of its state chapters, adding that reconciliation effort was still ongoing in the party. Daily Trust Saturday reports that the APC had not renewed its membership register since the initial registration exercise of 2014 despite the surge in its membership. Sequel to this, the caretaker committee, during a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari in Aso Villa recently, got his nod to embark on nationwide membership registration and revalidation exercise which ended on March 31, 2021. The Buni-led committee had pushed for the establishment of a tripartite committee to be saddled with the responsibility of enhancing communication and relationship between the executive, legislature and the ruling APC, with a view to ensuring smooth and effective service delivery to Niigerians. President Buhari appointed Vice President Yemi Osinbajo as the chairman of the tripartite committee. The president had said an amicable resolution of conflicts in the party through regular consultations would create more understanding. The Buni-led committee had also led the party to victory in the Ondo State governorship election. Our reporter also learnt that the APC was amending its constitution to bring sanity and discipline among card-carrying members. A source in the party said the constitution was being amended to include, among other things, a clause that would compel its elected and appointed officers to meet with people at the grassroots, at least twice a year. Speaking at the party’s secretariat in Abuja a few months ago, Buni said, “Apart from the issue of membership registration, there are the outstanding issues of constitutional amendment. “This is a matter that is as important as reconstitution of leadership, if not more important. I believe our capacity to strengthen our rules through constitutional amendment would help us to put all the problems that led to the crisis that brought us to this point behind us. I will, therefore, invite you to take all the necessary steps to forward recommendations that will enable us to strengthen our rules.” Hurdles Tongues are wagging over the possibility of the caretaker committee to organise an elective national convention not later than June this year. There are twists and turns, dark clouds and anxiety as pundits are arguing that the much-touted June convention date is shaky and may hit the rocks. Impeccable sources confided in our reporter yesterday that the APC top echelon was still battling to unite members, bury internal crisis in state chapters, reach key decisions on the issue of zoning, organise ward, local government, state and zonal congresses as a prelude to the convention. Daily Trust Saturday reports that the caretaker committee has not yet constituted convention sub-committees that would help in planning and executing various tasks ahead of the convention. There is an uproar over alleged plots by some party bigwigs to extend the timeline allotted to the Buni committee and shift the party’s national convention beyond June. There are concerns that barely 40 days to the expiration of the interim committee’s timeline, it is not yet ready to organise the national convention and congresses to elect a new crop of leaders at various levels. The committee also has a herculean task of putting things in proper shape and organising congresses, where new ward, local government, state and zonal executives would emerge. This is sequel to the dissolution of the party’s structures from ward to zonal levels at the NEC meeting of December 8, 2020, which was held at the Presidential Villa in Abuja. But a statement by the secretary of the caretaker committee, Senator John James Akpanudoedehe few days ago in Abuja, indicated that the party was not planning to release its schedule of activities for congresses and convention any time soon. However, there were reports in some quarters that the committee would release the timetable soon. Reacting, Akpanudoedehe said, “The CECPC is focused and is delivering its mandate to recover, rebuild and reposition the APC, as well as achieve peace-building, true reconciliation and to give a sense of belonging to every member of the party. “On Monday, May 17, 2021, the APC national secretariat resumed from Sallah break and will also resume work on several ongoing and important party activities. As usual, we will promptly communicate the outcomes of these activities through official channels when available. “We have never lied on our activities, and we simply have no reason to. The consultative party leadership style instituted by Governor Mai Mala Buni as chairman of the CECPC has institutionalised the APC as a party of processes and internal democracy.” But some party chieftains are worried that the party would hit the rocks if the convention is not held in June, citing legal issues. There is also anxiety in the APC as controversy rages among top party leaders over which zone should produce the party’s 2023 presidential candidate. There are hints that the convention is being delayed for various issues, including zoning, lingering crisis in some state chapters, fear that some members might pull out if the outcome of the convention does not favour their interests. Others say the APC is buying time to wait for the PDP to decide on zoning of its 2023 presidential ticket and chairmanship before acting. Daily Trust Saturday reports that the PDP national convention is expected to hold in December, 2021 when the tenure of the Prince Uche Secondus-led NWC would elapse. Discussions around alleged lack of reward system in the APC is equally generating tension and gaining momentum by the day. Party stalwarts are grumbling over the issue and asking the national leadership of the party not to allow new entrants to hijack the system but recognise and reward old members who contributed to the growth of the party. However, it is left to be seen whether the Buni committee would tackle all the challenges before June and organise a crisis-free national convention or get an extension of its timeline for the third time. 