Some women from the South-West region have called on Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State to declare for Presidency. They assured him and others like him across Nigeria of their unflinching support. Nigeria’s next general elections will hold in 2023. The women made the call at the South-West Women Arise for Nigeria maiden awareness project on ‘One Nigeria’, which held on Friday at Airport Hotel in Lagos State. At the event, they commended Governor Bello for recognising the importance of women in nation-building by giving more women the opportunity to serve in his cabinet. Women of the South-West region had converged on the venue to condemn the spate of insecurities in different parts of the country, calling for a united Nigeria. The co-convener, Mrs Bolanle Idowu, in her opening remark, admitted that splitting or separation was not the solution to Nigeria’s problems. She said: “Nigeria is a complex nation but as complex, as it is, we must learn to live together, we must not allow any form of fight or division amongst us.” She encouraged Nigerians to instead of agitating for separation, harness the advantage of togetherness. “It is not time to split. As women, we have the power to bring about peace in our land. “We must not continue to fold our arms and watch things go bad. We are tired of insecurities in every part of the country,” she said while calling on women to rise with one voice and call on God to save the nation from collapsing,” she said. In a communique issued at the end of the conference signed by the co-convener, Mrs Idowu, the women unanimously singled out Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, hailing him as a role model governor that had recognised the importance of women in nation-building. According to the women, Bello is the first Governor ever to appoint a female ADC in the history of Nigeria and has a female Secretary to the State Government (SSG). They further pointed out that all the Vice Chairmen of the local governments in Kogi State are women. “This is why we are saying that the problem of Nigeria is not about political parties but about the person who can do the job and take us out of the quagmire. “This is also the reason why education has not been interrupted in the State since he assumed power and the state is adjudged the safest in the North,” the communique reads in part. “From the drums of war sounding across the land, it is clear that a lot of people are aggrieved, owing to the myriads of challenges, especially in security-related, bedevilling the nation. “Truly, what we face today can be described as a war situation already. Thousands of lives have been lost to needless and inhuman acts of bandits who get emboldened by the day. “Kidnapping now seems to be a most lucrative job, aside from oil and gas.” The women appealed to the female folk to prevail on their husbands and children, to toe the path of peace and not allow agents of destruction to use them to cause greater destruction.