A former governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha, on Tuesday said President Muhamamadu Buhari is “standing alone” in the face of the daunting security and economic challenges facing the country. Okorocha, who stated this while playing host to the APC Progressives Minds from Cross River state, at the Unity House in Abuja, noted that no one has been speaking up in support of the President among his appointees or close aides. “I sympathize with President Muhammadu Buhari at this moment, because everything is on him. No one is defending him, the Ministers are not speaking, the Directors are not speaking, then the masses that should say listen at least our President is doing something, are not speaking, everyone is bottled with anger of some sort. “That is the problem that we have, problems are bound to occur or exist, but handling the problem is a different thing. If you go to a family where there is no money but they are united, what comes out from there is very sweet, but here, where people are not united, the words are very bad,” he said. The Senator representing Imo West, while urging the youths to continue to believe in Nigeria, stressed that the APC reward system was not benefiting Nigerian youths. He said this is responsible for the anger across the nation. According to him, ”Don’t give up on Nigeria. Nigeria must be better, a new Nigeria is coming soon, in this ‘New Nigeria’ the reward system, will be near-perfect and young men and women will have a place. ”The bitter truth is that the APC reward system is not benefiting Nigerian youths and this is responsible for the anger seen across the nation”. Earlier, in his speech, the leader of the group, Kalita Aruku, said they were at the Unity house because they share the passion of Okorocha. Aruku said, “Your Excellency, your track record speaks volume; we have closely followed your antecedents and know that you have consistently shown commitment to the development of Nigeria. “We know what Imo looked like before you became governor of that state and we know what it looks like today, all thanks to your vision for the state, that is why we have come to pledge our commitment and loyalty to you.”