Ahmed Isah, the host of Brekete Family, a human rights programme, has announced his plan to end his show amid the controversy on assault. In an undercover investigation, BBC Africa Eye captured how Isah assaulted a woman who appeared on his show. Isah, popularly known as ordinary president, was seen slapping the defenceless woman. This had sparked a controversy as many expressed shock over the conduct of the human rights campaigner known for helping ordinary people get justice via his show, which is aired on Human Rights Radio 101.1, Abuja and streams online via social media platforms. Speaking on the Wednesday edition of the programme, Isah tendered an apology for slapping the woman. “I apologise to everybody that I have offended in one way or the other. Please, I’m a human being. I’m bound to make mistakes. I was triggered by the zeal and passion in me. As a human being, even computers tend to malfunction, there is blood flowing in my veins, I tend to get emotional sometimes. “Whenever I do anything out-of-control on the basis of emotions, I always apologise when I realise it and correct the mistakes. For those disappointed in me, please forgive me. For those I have offended, please find a place in your heart to forgive me.” On his decision to end the programme, Isah said there is no going back as he has made up his mind. Daily Trust later contacted Isah over his decision to end the programme and he said he meant it. Many fans of the programme have been appealing to him to reconsider the idea of ending the programme which has provided succour to victims of injustice. Brekete Family first aired on Kiss FM Abuja in 2009, and then later on Crowther Love FM. Following its initial success, the programme’s headquarters, Human Rights Radio, Abuja, was established. Beneficiaries of the broadcast have praised Brekete Family for empowering people in various ways, which include securing financial assistance. The programme has blossomed into several other areas such as the Brekete Academy, where certified instructors offer courses in professional development in various fields. The programme is listened to, by millions of ordinary Nigerians, government officials, politicians, law enforcement, and even foreigners. It is a place where people obtain public redress, facilitate arbitration and has been used to raise funds for scholarship program for the poor, sick, or hungry. The programme is conducted in Pidgin English and features real-life issues and events concerning human rights. It has gained a wide acceptance and mass appeal, especially due to its nature of operation, similar to a community network. Hence, they reach out to the underprivileged, and intervene on behalf of the victims of daily human rights abuse.