Idris Aloma, a former Personal Assistant of David Adeleke, Nigerian music star, better known as Davido, has alleged that he was offered N100 million to indict the artiste over the death of Tagbo Umeike. Umeike died at a Lagos hospital where he was treated for food poisoning in 2017. There were allegations that Davido had a hand in the death of Umeike who was allegedly dumped in the hospital. Nollywood actress, Caroline Danjuma, who had said she was a close friend of the deceased, had said Tagbo died in Davido’s car moments after he was seen partying with the singer and his crew. Taking to his Instagram account at the time, Davido had said lies were told against him but out of respect for Tagbo’s family, he would not comment on the sad event. Speaking when he featured on a YouTube series by Jahbless, also a Nigerian artiste, Aloma narrated how some persons tried to indict Davido. “This is the first time I’ll say this on air. The interesting part of the issue was that while we were at Lion building, Tagbo’s lawyer came in the company of another person, whose identity I would not want to disclose, and the divisional police officer.” “They said I was the foreman and took me to a separate room. One really needs to be scared of the entertainment industry, I won’t lie, they’re trying everything possible to bring Davido down. So, they said since I was their foreman, I should write a statement that Davido was the one who killed Tagbo. “I was offered a cheque of N100 million just to implicate Davido in the statement. But I didn’t do that because if I had done that, I would have finished the money by now.” Aloma said contrary to rumours, Umeike died after heavy consumption of alcohol when he was rushed to the hospital. “That day, it was Tagbo’s birthday so Davido and I alongside were celebrating and drinking with him at Shisha Lounge. Then around past 12 am, Tagbo was excited because of his birthday. We were all taking Tequila then,” he added. “But everyone including Davido started warning him against the rate at which he was drinking. I guess it was due to the birthday excitement. When we realised that he was drunk, Davido asked someone to drop him at home because we were heading for a show at Oniru axis. That was the last time we saw Tagbo. “By the time we left Oniru, we got a call that Tagbo wasn’t feeling fine and that he needs to be rushed to the hospital. So, I left with one other person to his place and we took him to a general hospital. “We were told that he wasn’t breathing well…but about nobody attended to us for about 45 minutes. I was holding him in my hand then while we were waiting for the medical personnel to attend to us. Then after a while, he held my hand, told me ‘God bless you….” and passed away. It wasn’t long before the police came. I spent 18 days at Panti.”