The Senator representing Oyo North Senatorial District, Fatai Buhari, has said the National Assembly is yet to see a reason to impeach President Muhammadu Buhari. The senator who stated this when he paid a Sallah visit to a former governor of Oyo State, Rashidi Ladoja, said there is a process for impeaching a president. Senator Buhari’s submission is coming a day after Senator Yusuf Abubakar Yusuf (APC Taraba) and chairman of senate committee on special duties said impeaching President Buhari would not end insecurity in the country. There have been calls for President Buhari’s resignation or impeachment following the spate of insecurity in the country. But Senator Buhari has asked those calling for secession in the country not to create a problem that would not be easily solved. “Impeaching the president has a process.  Anybody calling for the impeachment of the president should give a genuine reason that warrants the impeachment. “We are yet to see a reason to impeach the president. If there is a need, then, we shall table it, discuss it and the two houses must come together. “Impeaching the president is not what someone will just wake up one day and call for. There is a procedure for it. Why do you want to cause a problem and create confusion that you cannot solve?” he queried. Speaking on the security challenges bedevilling the country, the lawmaker said; “We have no other country than Nigeria. Nigeria is our country and our home. We should try to do internal security. We should play our own part; we should not leave everything to the government alone. “There should be local police that will be able to know the terrain. We know ourselves no matter how it can be. In the early 80s, we used to travel at night. But the level of insecurity in the country, something fundamental is missing.” He disclosed that the 9th National Assembly had discussed the security issue for over 50 times. “We discussed the security issue over 30 times in the 8th Assembly, and this present 9th Assembly has also discussed it over 50 times. Let everybody be vigilant, even if we change our service chiefs many times, that cannot solve our security challenges,” the senator said.